Agreed Karl,

Something I have noticed too and lost track of any coherent argument from rabbithole.

I would only add to this one. If we only have local reps in federal parliament, who are only looking after local issues who takes care of the country as a whole?

The rabbit? Looking after the small hole it lives in perhaps is not the best idea for the bigger picture of it surrounds?'Keating MD' huh.

"Labor is the party of blood &amp; drownings"

Not sure how you can bleed whilst drowning? But sounds a totally legit 'average voter' real person input to me...
"simply to travel on to a self-selected destination."

Isn't it interesting how easily the 'free market', 'pay less taxes', 'freedom of speech', and personal choice to do whatever you like and have 'little if any govt' argument falls down.

Who is to stop them for you in light of these 'core' principals? 

You can't have your private yummy cake and eat it too. Either you do something. Or the collective taxpayer funded 'nanny state' steps in to do it for you.

Which is it? Or are you starting to learn life is a bit more complex than having a cake and eating it at the same time?

And 'nanny state' is what babies say to their 'nannies' for not letting them eat lollies all day long. 'Tax', and general 'health' free.


Simplistic is as simplistic does Zing.

-They came from Indonesia. (Yet to hear about a flow of Indonesian nationals asylum seekers.)
-They were not being persecuted in Indonesia. (as above)
-They could have requested asylum at our embassy, but did not. (which embassy? where?)
-They had no genuine need to enter Australia. (Not worth response to)
-Application denied. ("their assessment can be conducted in one minute" - How? would you like fries with that Zing?)
-Deported (to where? Indonesia?)

Stop getting involved in foreign wars, and you'll stop asylum seekers trying to come here as us being participants in them. Where was/is your mantra/s backing that one? 


 
Hang on Coochey,

They are seeking the right to be considered 'legal citizens' somewhere in the world are they not? We are  a 'first world' civilised nation, at least we used to be, and recognise such civilised world wide practice and say yes or no to this pursuit based on the merit of the application. To say 'no' to everyone seeking asylum just proves we are not a modern civilised society at all. And really, that we are a 'third world' nation just as bad as the rest of them. 

Whilst Bob Carr (well out of his depth on the international stage) complains about the service of slippers, pj's, and opera subtitles in first class. And the Coaltion quotes him at selective will, of course.

muzzg,

"What small minded little fish the left wing nuts are"

You mean the 'small minded left wing nuts' that lobbied and got Australia a seat on the UN council in the first place? Are you even aware of this, or how we got there? Do you pay that much attention to such things?

All the while at the time Abbott, Bishop et al were complaining it was a waste of time and money... 26 million or something in that order is costs (roughly 1/5th of the federal school chaplaincy programme).

Please try to stick to factual discussion and to refrain from irrelevant name calling that does little to offer credibility, or constructive contribution...Hi Jake,

I have to say I agree. Not even Howard was this keen or desperate to appear 'statesman' like.

The Ukraine disaster is a good example of these egos we currently have in charge but 10 months in.

Luckily for us here, Australia is not a nuclear 'power', and hence they won't be taken too seriously on the world stage.Another 'policy' backflip. Surprise, surprise.

Abbott says, being unemployed should be a full time job to find a new one. Abetz says no, it should be work for the dole is a full time job... and apply for a full time in the morning and afternoons is not unreasonable on top of that. Move, go without for six months and still prove you did all of the above in the six months you get ZERO.

Looks like our hard of facts 6% unemployment rate will fall very soon to 0% with such well thought through and pure genius leaders at the helm. Listening to the advice of experts in their own heads.

Enter Kevin Andrews.... the most capable and expert 'couples' advisor in the entire country to sort that arena out. Joe hockey who instead of 'selling a budget' goes on holidays to Fiji and returns to sell a book about, ta da.. himself. Where do I sign up for more policy genius from this team! Since I didn't sign up in 2013 yet, I'm keen to sign up for even more in future.

Add to that Twiggy Forrest wants hundreds of thousands of Austalians to give up smoking, drinking, and gambling all at once and immediately...

Good one, that'll work. No foreseeable repercussions there. We should have had twiggy on the board of Quit, Alcoholics Anonymous, and Gamblers Anonymous years ago. 

Next job fix the worlds oldest profession in a single report of recommendations and turn all those late night red lights off. 

Sorted. 

Now, for our next immediate fix of all ills of the less well off than us magic trick....   
Hang on Happy,

America still has law and order, which last time i checked is not a concept that has been abandoned and is still 'taxpayer' funded at various levels.

Nor have any US conservatives governments produced a 'smaller govt' as they promised to do.

In fact, the smaller government argument usually leads to a bigger govt in the longer term. But a more hidden one, with larger and more hidden financial and social costs.Woe there soldier,


The 'government' is the ABC's boss. Not the 'people' the ABC serve. You haven't noticed the difference yet between Labor and Liberal... in the application of this? 

Facts are no longer relevant these days. It is now a slowly turning cog back to approved govt propaganda only, lest they be and lose their jobs for it... 'un-Australian', 'un-patriotic', or 'undemocartic' are all reasons to counter common sense, and facts.

I too applaud Big Ben in this comment,

I may, or may not agree with it, to be honest, but it is at least real. And worthy of discussion. Many real people comments are starting to question what is going on, regardless of traditional political stripes either way.

For the most accurate account of real people comments pop in here of a Friday eve, when the social media 'army' have all knocked off for a quiet friday eve bevvy and are not on here to distract or kerb it.Are are any Australian bilionaires not currently involved in public policy at present?

Very worrying indeed.


Things are starting to sound like a how to get rich seminar. "Anyone can do it including you. First fifty tickets free, come along a learn how you too can be rich."

Great, lets make them federal pollies, after all good ol Howard said "If I can be PM, anyone can"

27 million billionaire PM's coming to Aus soon. Total possible, and not far fetched simplicity at all.@Cathrine,

I see many financially comfortable people are lining up to give that lifestyle away, and instead pursue a 'dole bludgers' lifestyle that sounds so great and wonderful.Why not have a work for the dole idea that people get slightly more for doing so?

Much cheaper, and then we'd prob see just how many people really 'refuse' to work.

I'm sure it will dispose the dole bludgers WANT to be dole bluders myth very quickly. But big sticks are eaiser to hit people with, whilst blaming them for getting in the way of the big swinging stick being swung at them. 

Why can't they just pay their fare share of taxes, and stay out of public policy then? Enjoy the fact they have lots more than most, and feel good they provide jobs for others?

When you have more than you can possibly ever spend... Why is that so hard?Even better idea Dean,

Become a work for the dole certified provider and get your workforce for free. Thats the end game right? Cheap, or if possible a free work force? As paying 'employees' to keep your business going for your income is just so unfair.Interesting that some of the longest public roads in the country lead to remote sites isn't it? Funny how mining sites/towns seam to be at the end of many of these public roads network, and back to more populated areas again.

Ho hum, I reckon airplane, and helicopter fuel should be tax free too... given they REALLY don't use roads.In that case why not make everything on private property tax free then?

I have a few things at home on my private proprety, but I'll with a shoe 'rebate' as I have no pubilc footpaths at home, cheers.

Apart from the fact that 'fuel' taxes no where near cover the cost of roads anywhere in the country, which I won't bother with.


Supermarkets?

The places you can get things you can actually eat from?

Might have well as said 'banks', as money is just a edible as coal, gas, and iron ore is. Foreclosing on all the farms they can that don't yet mine.Well said harvey,

Here's a thought. If we flood the market with free workers. Work for the dole is paid by the government. Even the UK are realising the foolery of this. 

Who gains? I'll tell you who. The minnows with an ear into the Abbott govts ears.

Banks? why bother with this, its not like you get a cut, given EVERYONE has a bank account. Pay fees, and gives you money to play with year round.

Woolies, Coles? Wouldn't be buying stocks in them right now, given the loss of business they're going to get with a hugely reduced capacity market of those purchasing basics of survival.

Miners? Well your profits are offshore. So no biggy. You don't care either way. Claim its all the carbon taxes fault, whilst you operate comfortably here to get super profits of ship them offshore, by buying a government and have a very small share in of its people and job providing activity. Or money that stays in the economy of this country. MRRT next. Abbott and Hockey are a tax write off, and easy cheapo ones at that.


At least labor can walk and talk at the same time. Deal with big business, and a work force that keeps big business with customers in this country rather than off shoring everything, and anything. 

Wow, way hard. To figure it all out. Give me my tele, I think Rupert is visting Gina in Singapore, or Gina is visting Rupert in New York. I get confused which story about rich who don't even live here people is more exciting.

Dont worry Finn.

Burke and Wills tried that without enough food and water, and outside any support network. The evidence of what happened to them this is already in. They um, well, kind of died.Don't forget the fruit picking industry.

Trees fruit all year round haven't you heard?



Waterloo Sunset 2013.

Norway's PPL has proven to be successful, and indeed smooth. The country pays for it by better control of mined materials the nation owns and sells, and better control of its taxes. 

It is also available to both males, and females 'in Norway' (as they are both Parents - aka one of the P's in PPL). Check it out "for anyone taking the trouble to study it" it is vastly different to Abbotts appeal to female voters 'interpretation' of it. And many Austrlaians already know these 'facts' about it.

Here in Aus, the proposal, is rather different to the actual scheme in the country you discuss.

Oh, and sorry, whoops, I didn't notice you had updated your screen name to Waterloo Sunset '2016'.


...I wonder why...


The problem APM,

Is the confusing of the terms 'factual' with being of the 'left'. Since when were facts a bad thing? And only the realm of 'leftists'? Do 'leftists' buy stale bread, or off meat? Or rotten fruit? Go to a doctor that would tell them this grain of salt will cure your cancer?

Uni's are full of fact givers. Yes, I suppose that sounds true enough. That's why they get the job in the first place isn't it? Labelling them 'leftists' is well.. err?

I do not understand this proposal?

I also do not understand why the term 'luvvie' is so bad either?

What you are really doing is undertaking an assault on 'facts', and 'love'... Hardly, offensive to most people I wouldn't have thought.

Why? Surely these are good concepts? And one's worth keeping in our world?

I simply do not understand what you are arguing for? For who? Or why?

Good comment Sir Robert,

I would also add this one to your list..

"I read most of the media in this country daily" 

Who has the time to do that?

...I wonder...Gaza and the West Bank is a tiny little piece of world geography.

A tiny little economy is its own right.

Ask where the money is coming from for such sophisticated war machines on either side. And what each sides' supporters do to these poor innocent people despite not actually living there physically themselves, but only ideologically, and behind their distant cheque books.What does 'Churchill like' mean?

The reality of Churchill's political career is this. He was the English war minister during WW1. And then dumped post hence. English Pm during WW2 when it all kicked off again... and quickly dumped again at the first English election post WW2. (real wars).

What are you suggesting AGB? That our Pm is soon to be dumped? Or that we are even at 'war' at all? Both at the same time perhaps? 

Or is it just more 'partisan' sensationalism of 'well known' historical figures, without really knowing any facts about them dribble?

Surprise, surprise.An interesting comment Lynnette,

And also a sad one.

I often wonder if 'work for the dole' is only really allowing certain organisations and/or businesses the abilty to cancel out a 'real job' that they would normally have to hire and pay someone for, to get a worker for free instead.

So isn't work for the dole just really reducing the job market? by flooding it with free workers? And shifting public paid money, to the private sector by providing free workers for them?Good point. I reccomend to these unfortunate people living well below the poverty line on a less than a tuppence already send all 40 of their job applications per month to the Miners, Bankers, and heartless, brainless 'right wing' commentors. All one million per day of them as this govt are now requesting. That way, they will will have to hire more HR staff, at least, and it will cost them something to do so. 

In fact, even better. Send all job applications to the LNP directly. It is already well known they do not advertise ANY positions via the govt network (AKA centrelink).

Send all CV's directly to their emails intsead. 'Blind call', 'door knock', 'blank canvass' them directly. After all, if you ask for a job often enough, eventially you will get one. Right? I'm sure the LNP will happily oblige the constant requests if you go to them direct.

Start now.

spot on John51,

They might as well say 'currently unemployed' on their applications and send them to the moon. 

We have clueless policy makers at present. Doom and gloom the economy most days, then send your panic about it to the moon and hope that sorts things out for you.

Totally clueless all round.Interesting comment Brad, Thanks for that.

Given you seam not to be bothered to educate yourself, does that mean I dont have to respect it?

Take a look at your tax return, Joe is trying to educate you on how little money goes to 'unemployed' people as he claimed was much higher, but are their biggest smearing targets in the 'welfare' structures they are trying to dismantle. Pretty colours and graph bars didn't even help the lies out much either.

Epic Fail, if you ask me, and most others too.

Looking forward to the PPL in a pretty graph bar in the 'Welfare' list next year.What's the point of sending AFP staff without guns to defend anyone? Let alone themselves?

What is it that they are supposed to do there? Apart from throw a few random punches around to save themselves?

Our current 'government' is so simplistic, and stupid, it beggars belief of anything, religious backgrounds, or otherwise.

Its becoming small minded don't you think?
Not sure why you think the middle class only do 9-5 'average' jobs.

Bit like someone saying 'oh to be an upper class rightie' highly paid CEO's, serving on several boards and drawing several high pay packets for an hour here, an hour there, at five different 'hardworking jobs' all at once etc. ..Agreed asgrad,

Hockey never had me fooled. He's been around for a long time, and it does not surprise me one bit he is flailing now that he has more mass public spot light on him. Only the media in crowd would fall for his jovial joe nonsense, because he gave them plenty of interviews. Mostly about stuff the mass public didn't care about anyway.

As for who would replace him.. I also agree, what a depth of talent the Coalition have... Maybe Barnaby.. but the Libs never give the Nats the top jobs. Apart from the 'in name only' type ones such a 'deputy', or 'acting' in a temp fashion whilst they are jet setting out of aus.Spot on Miowarra,

Seconded.

I find it so annoying people forget that Howard did this..

And that this new lot come in with big sticks beating up the unemployed and the huge expenditure that welfare is.

The unemployed make up a SMALL portion of welfare  expenditure. And the a LARGE portion of this small portion goes to 'private' 'job services' that do very little compared to the CES. But doe Joe mention this...

No. because the unemployed largely don't vote Lib so he doesn't care and sees them as easier to beat on than the more real and LARGE portions of welfare expenditure.Bascically they want the term 'welfare' to mean 'unemployed'..

Which is a flat out misrepresentation of the facts. 

As ussual, its 'Jovial' Joe all round...

Whilst you leave the used car yard thinking you bought the best second had car in the country from the only honest second hand car dealer in town...Pop,

Talk to Howard and Costello about that one.

Funny how rusted on's only seam to care about what pollies from the other 'team' are doing or did. No scrutiny about what their own 'team' ever do, or did though. Fingers in ears, la la la la... not listening.

That's why politics is such a mess these days in my opinion. Both state, and federal. The ill informed Rusted on's simply can't see past the 'team' they prefer and only scrutinise the other 'teams' actions.Colmery,

That's because back in Howard's days of pure populism, the Libs were quietly giving their backers what they wanted in the background.

The current lot aren't savvy enough for that though. Its not Howard's 'B' team in charge now. Its Howard's 'D' team.

Biggest win over labor in history rubbed out in less than a year.Alfie,

Looking forward to the hits business big and small takes when lower income earners have nothing to spend.

And the higher taxes paid to put them in bigger and bigger prisons. No distant penal colonies to send them all to anymore.

And the death penalty for stealing a loaf of bread is a bit harsh these days too. 

You also need to learn the dif between pay no 'tax', and no 'net tax'.Smartest,

Interesting info, cheers. 

Always prefer informed info than ill informed unthinking dog whistling, and distraction tactics. 

I also often wonder why people are so hell bent on attacking a civilised society that we all benifit from that a tax system  provides the basis of.

Do people think these things through? Or just complain based on their own tax returns and comparing them to the tax returns of others being more or less, without looking at the implications outside of 'money' alone?

Oh well, but thank goodness for democracy.





Rubbish,

One of my ex bosses put more into super (tax free) than most of us were paid in base salary.

Made every tax reducing claim a ABN affords even in their personal lives nothing to do with the company.

Negative gearing was also a favourite of theirs. 

They were on paper worth very little in annual income tax too. 

All legit. But...

Hmmm.. a net tax payer?The poor drive less, consume less and therefore should be exempt from environment taxes....?

When is that one happening anytime soon?


No, dont be silly the super rich digging up our earth with 'environmentally' friendly diesel should be exempt from it all... quick look over there, not at me. 


'Fair' is a sneaky cigar, after a fake morning jog budget morning. 'Oh cameras catching us jogging? Righto guys, cameras everywhere on the shores Lake Burley Griffin how on on earth did you see us having a healthy early morning jog'? 

'Fiscal belt tightening' surgical tummy tuck anyone? 

Its much easier than a 'real' jog rather than a staged one.

Roll up, roll up... And for my next non fiction book... 

"Where else in the world would you find a home owner who has to pay his local council $535 rates bill every 12 weeks"

um, how's that garbage collection service going for you 'in your own home' that big pile out the back somewhere must be getting big?

And don't worry about the 'leftie luvvie' recycling bits. Just bury them deeper.

Fixed your local road recently? Or made a public park? Invented better sewerage or stormwater protocols, or maintained them also?

Do tell us more of how you would do it better, if not parted from your precious personal dollars as the local 'collective' are subjecting upon you so unfairly...Howard froze fuel excise taxes over a decade ago.

Joe can't upset the devotee Howardites.

Lose, lose all round in LNP voter land these days. 

Simple as that. 

Care for others before or after themselves = zero. All round in the 'me' party. Sad, but also rather funny.
and that only the 'hard working' are deserving of tax breaks...

Funny how Australia's richest person primarily backing them doesn't look like they've seen the inside of gym since 1977...

Hard working hey?Well done realist,

In the US college funds/trusts are started at birth for children by parents who can do it (and some that can barely do it). Parents, saving money in the order of 120k by the time the little ones turn 18. For each child they have. That's big money for parents, and the 'students' that get there usually aren't all that bright. Think Private school-esque types. Pyne is the federal education minister. I make no judgement. It is a current fact that Pyne is our country's 'education minister'.

Healthcare in the US can lose you your family's home if your insurance company refuses to pay out on a particular claim that they find a loophole to exploit loss free to the shareholders. 

Welcome the newest litigation capital of the world. Australia.

Where the big end of town bankrolls your democratic electoral candidates. And your best democratic option is joining a 'class action'.

Good luck to you, in litigation lawyer wonderland, in the new Australia, and enjoy the new national democracy of 'ambulance chasers'.
ig,

During the course of my life I have had not had one single GP recommend a 'test' that is not warranted. Ever.

Nor any of my family members, friends, or anyone I know for that matter.

Most are well aware of the emotional, and financial cul-de-sacs of such false recommendations, to all involved (including themselves), and not that stupid.

Perhaps you are not a good one? ...or perhaps... not a 'real' 'GP' at all?

Nell,

Terry Barnes was very careful to include the words 'trade union', to highlight the 'badies'.

Now, if the AMA is a 'trade union', or ever has been, then we are all truly going bonkers with these neo cons in charge.

Alpo,

"I am puzzled, Ben. What would you exclude from the concept of "social contract"?"

Ben the lawyer,

"That's my point. If it includes everything, then it actually means nothing."

As for me and my input,

you are avoiding the question Ben, what would you exclude from it?

Jumping strait to it includes everything therefore it means nothing is a child like cop out in my opinion. And a classic avoidance and distraction of a strait forward question, quite clearly not answered, but deflected, to not much of reason, or tangible substance.





Why is it 'voyeuristic'?

They are 'role models'.

I ain't no millionaire capable of putting some (if not a substantial amount of) money back into mental health for others. 

I don't care how big or small kim's bum is either...

And quite frankly the proper cinematic movies of his were the best. 

Never found him funny at all. 

Its not 'genius' its just substance abuse being praised by the cashier backers, and passed on to us, cause they all getting 'paid large' and the rest of us ain't. For being a normal undisruptive role model person, outside of holidaywood....

You get squat.Trev,

By 'Pretty Stalinist' I assume you mean only one choice being allowed?

So, how many religions are offered in RE (religious education) time in our public schools, now and over the years past, as there are many religions in this country, and indeed the world.

You don't see any irony in your remark?

In any case, I'm not really sure what Stalin has to do with anything in this topic of discussion really...? 

Most people know when the term "straw man" is wheeled out it usually means I have no coherent argument so I will accuse other points of view as being "straw man" by calling them "straw people". Whatever "straw man" actually means? I assume its close to your input regarding Stalin?Great comment tongal42,

If only it was more about cultivating understandings, rather than recruitment to one way of understanding directed at the young and impressionable, whilst they are away from their family and parents sending them to school?

There is a cultural problem in the cornering of young children away from the world and those they trust to impart one's own view being more important than anyone elses in the world... And I won't get into other areas that this type of 'culture' has manifested itself with regard to young impressionable children away from their family and parents and those they trust. 

Sensible, and mature comments Miowarra,

Big thumbs up, and food for thought and reflection..

Interesting that with regards to the terms 'left wing' and 'right wing', they did not exist prior to revolutionary France. 1787 is some 1787 years after 'the birth of Christ'. So I doubt the author has much grasp of political teachings either.

Might as well have teachers in our primary schools saying 1 + 1 = 8. If you have 'faith' enough that it does... Then it does.Agreed Burns,

My concern with Lambie is she jumps up and down and claps and says 'yay carbon tax removed'. Without getting into climate change issues, I don't think she understands any of the ins and outs of all that much for business, or the environment either way.

Unprofessional, is an understatement. Immature, is pretty close to the mark though.

I also feel someone calling our PM a psychopath is immature and unhelpful. 

I may or may not agree with our current PM personally on some issues, but I would never go that far. I am also not paid to behave professionally, responsibly, and behalf of others in the order of remuneration that Lambie now is. In my opinion she is not too bright, and indeed will be potentially dangerous in such a high level position.

Please tell me one current sitting PUP rep that displays one's faith in being 'intelligent' or 'bright'?After five years of shouting down a 'toxic tax' to give $550 back per average household... And $100 lamb roasts or whatever blah blah, like everyone has a lamb roast most weeks anyway... Why even bother going there to mount an argument? $100 at a fine dining 5 star restruant is cheap isnt it? 

Howevr, how are they achieving this objective exactly? The axing of toxic carbon tax being repaid back from the honest big business operators to the average family once 'the toxic tax'  is gone? And prices return to the  pre-evil carbon tax levels? 

Lost their 5 year overdue homework? And had to let PUP do it for them instead so lost control of the actual outcome they wanted?

Quite interested to see the passed legislation on all this....

Given Abbott and co had five years post axing Turnbull to sort out the finished product of the 'idea'.john1,

"The senate is not meant to be a tool used to stop a government from governing"

Perhaps you need a lesson on how our political system works. You'd be suprised at how many people beyond you already understand it. 

A vote on the senate part of the ticket (piece of paper), is not the same as a vote for the Fed reps part (different piece and coloured of bit of paper). 

Back to politiksy school for you, me thinks.This is an extremely sad event. And very upsetting from sad to very angry, and back again.

But I hope here in Australia our nations top heads of state can conduct themselves professionally rather than play home land political football.

Holland lost more people than any other nation in this incident. And they have been profoundly more professional, and internationally realistic, thus far.

Lets not forget not long ago Abbott told us all they had found the missing Malaysian airlines flight that disappeared presumed missing in the ocean somewhere. What happened to being held to account on that misinformation to the us here in Australia, and those around the world?

The fact is we don't know what happened in this incident. Or who is responsible, or why, or how. Not yet. Trial by media is for bloggers. Not a nation's govt to boost its popularity, when its popularity is scarce. Australia as a tiny world player taking on Putin and or Russia without any actual hard evidence is a pure madness game of chicken.Agree Dove,

The first time I have seen Abbott has bothered turning up to an ABC TV studio in person since last sept rather than doing the interview offsite with flags and books behind him from within parliament house office was on 'Insiders' this past Sunday.

Coincidence?

Or finally thought got the ABC audience in the bag now too? 


Forget the budget, and the unruly senate, and what your are doing to Australians 99% of the time, focus on a tragic incident..

And strike a pose.Wouldn't it be more accurate to say the less taxes, less government, free market 'me, me, me' tea party and 'me, me, me' republicans have made their country flat broke at a federally sanctioned and capable of 'the state' level of response to anything abroad. Not a welfare state, so they can't blame it on that one, as our government is trying to do here in what is traditionally a fair, and well functioning society on the whole.

And their country is in massive debt not due to their middle, or their bottom classes, but the very few me's at the top that buy 'democracy' in a country where taxes and sensible government is an unbearable and unruly concept.. and are currently so broke they couldn't walk into an armed conflict on behalf of their people or 'fair minded' principals if they tried.

I think part of the problem is that when one side in a debate is more adept at distortion, distraction, and manipulation of fact, is counter balanced merely by a side that is more adept at honesty, critique, and letting facts speak for themselves the former always wins.

Unfortunately in Australia we have a large proportion people who are too lazy to think for themselves, or check credible sources out for themselves and hence are easily tricked. 


This can also be applied to consumers of media. There are too many people claiming they are impartial in the media, when in fact they are not.

In my opinion, too many Australians are intellectually lazy.
JessC,

I've always had time to pay reasonable attention to politics. No matter how busy I am.

A) Its part of the responsibility of having the right to vote.

B) Being properly informed about those that govern our lives is kind of important. At more least more important than the latest reality tv show doing the rounds. 

I'm curious though, if no one checks anything properly how do you expect them to be honest with you? Not sure all the blame can be laid at their feet if no one bothers to pay attention beyond a short slogan here and there.I agree HPH,

Having money is more important than being honest or having intergrity.

Perhaps we need a market mechanism that rewards these values. But sadly we dont. The highly paid person I would trust to have these in this country is a Doctor. But that might change soon enough if we continue unchecked down the American free market path.Hi Realist,

I don't remember mentioning anything biblical.

However, now that you mention it the 'church' is one of the most financially well off organisations in the world (if not the most when owned property assets, and tax obligations are taken into account also) and has had one of the largest influences in modern human history prior to what we now call 2014 AD. 

So I'm not really sure what "cause and effect correlation"
you are referring to in order for people to respond to? 
Peter,

I think you are underestimating the emergence of social media, globalism, and the 24 hour news cycle. 

The last PM to escape these was Howard. Oh how Abbott and co long for the old days.I don't really care if man made climate change is real or not. I'd just prefer not to take the risk in meantime to save a few dollars.

And not to be told people are stupid and wasting their time trying to find out if it is. When it is so obvious it is only really about the mining sector being able to keep making profits.

Power companies are in the renewable energy business too you know they'll just adapt. Its only the miners that are really worried about their profits, because they simply can't adapt.Rusty,

I imagine its because with the big stick they are handing out to the nations youths, and pensioners, they had to hand to the extra saved carrot money somewhere else. And where better to spend it than the much more in need, and deserving of extra carrots big end of town.

I don't see anything wrong with making money out of a decent product? We all gotta make a living somehow.

That's the frist time I have heard preservation of the planet and continued life on earth, including for themselves, and their families, and others beyond self as not being 'altruism' though.I think its probably more accurate to say that Abbott govt has cultivated mistrust of consumers in yet another Australian industry.

For no discernable, rational, or necessary reason.

What is the point of doing this? Either to consumers, or the businesses that operate in the industry that relies on having customers to operate and prosper?

Would you buy a cheese burger if health and safety laws were abandoned? Or fiddled with.. to it might be safe to eat, we're not really sure, but we're definitely not responsible if it isn't. Please come again. 

If I was a Cheeseburger shop I would be rather unhappy my shop, and trust with my customers was being needlessly tarnished. For some puritanical free market, buyer beware and soley responsible, ideological crusade.I'm also looking forward to the new LNP senater James McGrath getting his way on a 'GST on everything'.

A few weekends of 15% GST on buying houses and units should sort the deficit out in a couple of Australia wide weekends of property Auctions. 15% on a 1 million dollar property purchase being $150 000 payable to the federal govt.

Good one that'll work out great, I'm sure all the flat tax army out there will be pleased to pay the 'fair' flat GST on their property purchases. Or will they all of a sudden complain GST favours the poor too much as they don't have enough money to buy the 'Goods' of property.

Oh I'm sorry, Bulldust..

All sates get an equal share of it right? The Federal govt doesn't decide where is goes and who gets what? Or what it is to be spent on?

My bad its a state collected and controlled tax. 

In any case, you are happy to pay GST on housing then I see.

Good news for the budget emergency.Interesting comment Ted,

My inkling was that PUP appealed to the anti Abbott niche of voters who would never bring themselves to vote Labor. Abbott has always been an unpopular public figure. Not new, and not rocket science to figure out.

The more PUP aligns with an Abbott govt however, the more their voter base will dwindle. 

In addition, when Abbott goes (not a prediction or partisan comment - all leaders do eventually) PUP will follow as they didn't and appears wont do enough to be seen as any different to Abbott in reality.

Good one Zing,

We should open up all our prisons immediately. It is not fair that crims have been unduly accused of offending the feelings of others. So called 'victims' in a civilised should just harden up.

Less govt now!

X rated porn should be allowed on the sides of busses, and on bill boards around the country, if it offends others then too bad for them. Right?I'm asuming Anthony you are not an impresionable child then? 

And that you have no interest in their protection in the public sphere?

Since gender discrimination, and race discrimination issues, don't bother you either as you have here and previously stated. 

Must be nice when you are all 'grown' up and don't have to bother worrying about anyone else beyond yourself, and things relate to you alone.I notice these vans aren't driving around with the slogan,

"Please graffiti on this van, as that would be super funny."

And in court they say - we didn't really mean it we were only joking. Our insurance is going through the roof from these silly people who can't recognise a light hearted joke when they see one.Many church signs have been pulled down over the years due to public back lash, and indeed breaches of public display regulations if they do not comply with them. The topic of 'sex' and 'discrimination' is often among the reasons they have had to be pulled down.

Try not to over simplify your argument, or distort facts.I think the point burke is that if they had Turnbull, the party would be allowed to stay in power doing more less what it wanted for a long period of time in a stabilised way. And deal with their leader and entire cabinet in private with less public scrutiny. And a treasurer that wasn't merely a uni mate but instead chosen more carefully based on political merit.

How do you think Howard and Costello lasted so long in power?

They weren't fools, and appealed to the public at large, while the party went about its business behind the scenes instead of being in the spotlight each and every day for the wrong reasons, and being as obvious to read as words on a page. Bolt is a good example of ruining Turnbulls chance of smoothing things over with Clive. Unhinged, and with friends like these who needs enemies certainly sounds about right to me.

The liberal brand is in far more trouble than Labor's that Gillard or Rudd ever managed to do.

As an ex Liberal voter I am very disappointed to say the least, that turmoil and lack of self control reigns supreme yet again.





damon and AE,

Palmer himself is not in the senate. He is the the house of reps. 1 (one).

Your comments are irrelevant to the article that is speaking about the balance of power in Canberra. His personal seat in the house of reps, or wether he keeps it personally is irrelevant.I find it amazing the Coalition are blaming the cross benchers and PUP for the current state of affairs in federal politics. PUP came about when?

The people wanted Labor out, of that there is no doubt. No pundit left, right, or media would disagree with that pulse of the nation. But they ran with a leader that was and still is less popular than the leaders the people wanted out for close to 5 years. Not sure if arrogance, or stupidity, or other. But they brought an unruly parliament on themselves. 

Malcolm was a walk in and long term option come 2010 and would have been landslide in the Libs favour all the way back then. They could have negotiated to their hearts content with whoever as they would have had the whole thing wrapped up in a neat little bag for at least a decade and deal with Malcolm privately in the party room in a common sense manner.

The current LNP leader was the wrong decision. They will all look bad being publically associated with him now, and soon enough it will be so. End of. And last time I checked a first term treasurer doesn't ever get a crack at PM either. So maybe for the best all round?
Interesting point Yank,

I have kept close watch on Q &amp; A at the start of the show for a few years now. 

It usually stated the studio audience 'Coaltion' was always ahead. Then ALP, then the Greens as a percentage making up the rest of the so called 100% still behind or at best close to. 

I used to balance up ALP and Greens togther and they were always still behind the 50% mark behind the 'coalition' that never has +50%. But a close descriptor of election outcomes. The higher number usually wins.

Recently the 'Coaltion' are well below their previous pertentages. And approaching being equal to Labor on its own. And well below ALP + Greens combined, whom they used to beat week in week out, even when combined. Suprised no one picks up Q&amp;A's polls potential. Usually pretty accurate as its a country wide show 'Your ABC' and all that. Or is that too the ABC is only for lefties rubbish the city think tank righties and shock jocks harp on about. Despite the Coaltion being ahead for a long time in the audience poll. Until recently, in which in reality they have fallen steadily?What do people expect? From the age of well before 15 (when he first became a world champion) he was taught win swimming in a pool filled with water, be popular to Aussies, and make money for doing both these more or less useless tasks.

Watching the drum tonight the typical 'free market' cheerleader wants him to donate his pay to charity. Whilst saying he is the best swimmer since Dawn Fraser. Now the long list of free market money Dawn has received over her 50 year swimming career would be a lot to donate back me thinks? If only she weren't hetero right winger. So its ok she is safe from such scrutiny.

What a cruel twist of the right wing 'free marketeers' joker cards will they play next?

Its ok for us to make lots of money, we are but mere free marketeer's who don't indulge or get actively involved in moral debates. Yeah right.John as I have pointed out before the ABC is the most democratic poll system in the country. Q&amp;A often states a majority Coaltion audience. For example. But falling. 

Pick and choose at will, it will not make fiction, fact.

Of the poll you mention though. How many repsondants understood what was going on and being asked them to answer about in an informed way? Complained about the Wyalla Wipe Out? And $100 lamb roasts as the rationale for their responses? Expect $550 per anum reduced power bills next year and beyond.

How many know their power bills have increased by only 2-3% via Carbon Tax? As oppossed to +/- 40% via other factors unrelated to carbon or climate change policy at all?

Claiming only 1 in 3 people know whats going in this area of policy is plausible, claiming they are wrong and ill informed is a bit of an overreach to say the least.


Alco pops v Grange.

Wow now I've heard them all.

And here I was thinking I was a 'latte sipper' being called one on a daily basis, despite the fact I dont drink coffee.

As a matter of facts though, wine and beer are taxed at lower rates than spirits alcohol, be they mixed with soft drinks or not. Which is perhaps why pure sprits are rather expensive at the bottle shops too.

Wonder why? Because I don't.Good one, lets open up all the prisons too. That would save a few bob. Let them all go forth and prosper, indulge, and enjoy. This nanny state we are living in is silly. It should be a free for all, and a survival of the fittest affair.

Release them into the rich suburbs, that dispise taxes first I say. And all at once since they want to deconstruct everything so quickly all the time. The world is your free market tax free oyster now. Good luck with that. And enjoy.
So what you are saying is despite the Coalition banging on about this for the last 5 years they didn't have the legislation in order within a couple of hours timeframe on the due date.

What happened then? Or did the dog eat their homework as usual?

Don't think I'd like to be in their group for a group work component for a uni assignment. All fun, games, parties, and photo ops, and then a last minute all nighter the night before due date probably.

Thought they were supposed to be grown ups? 
 
Doubt they would even be the most grown up in a uni course full of late teens and early twenty somethings.You clearly don't know much about Clive Palmer, Dave. Or his career history prior to being mining magnate.

Despite his past though, I'm quite liking him at the moment.

If he can get some sensible outcomes for the Australian people then good on him. The present Libs are a mess that make the previous government look rather excellent in comparison.

al,

"The best leaders seem to have leadership thrust upon them(Howard),"

Lol, the serial leadership challenger that would simply not go away for decades? Had leadership thrust upon him? Comedy at its best.

Thanks.

If you are going to comment on the drum, you should at least take the time to watch the show too.

This evening the panellist said that the carbon tax is having a substantial effect on emissions. Including John Hewson (a Lib for those who don't know politics beyond who the PM's are at any given time). And that its financial cost is in fact rather minimal to the Australian populace.

Repealing it will be 'negligible', if noticeable at all. But good one, well done. Back to the drawing board and lets all start again like headless chickens going round and round chopping and changing everything to look 'different' to the other mob. What a waste of time and money. And needless confusion to all.

Love how the Lib fan squad always bang on about price signals though, except when it comes to the environment... Your going to get one either way. Hope you took up Labor's solar panel assistance when you had the chance. Cause the libs won't offer you diddly squat.
AdamC,

Pistorius has a specially prepared individual cell. In an isolated area of the prison with disability equipped care. If you are going to make statements at least be up to date on your facts.

I personally do not believe for one second that Pistorius is innocent in the way he claimed. I do think he regrets it all, but at the time knew exactly who is was discharging a deadly firearm at. Perhaps if there was no opaque door between the two of them and had to see the reality of piercing bullets going into his loved one he may have thought twice or aimed to intentionally miss her.

However, it is hard to grant forgiveness and recognise remorse to someone when remorse is not sought truthfully. He claimed he didn't know it was ms Steenkamp he was firing at. Therefore, the avenue of sought remorse is false and the sentence is too light for not seeking forgiveness honestly.

An open and shut case distorted by an expensive defence team. No more, no less. The outcome in justice is unsatisfactory.
@ happy

Slippers comments (sms's) were sent to another person by him. What that person does with them upon receipt of them is up to them at that point.

Spurr's comments (email's) were sent to others by him, what they do with them are up to them. How do you know one of the recipients did not pass them on? Which is their legal right to do so if they received them from the sender via the senders choice.

There is no confidentiality in law that applies here as you propose. Person A willingly sent information/thoughts to person B, what person B does with it is up to them.

What this has to do with Frances Abbott as any matter of relevance to this case is beyond me? 

I think, and quite rightly, you should leave her and her personal cirrcumstance out of it. As she is not a public figure for you to include in your strawman at your will. Unless she sent info to you personally for you to discuss to others?Furthermore,

"No matter how they were gained, and it would appear they were hacked"

The case and its facts have not yet been heard. So your assumptions are just that. Assumptions. If 'hacked' would be your preferred path of legal defence you would have to prove the act of the hacking.

Personally, I prefer gathering the facts of a case, before wasting my time on wild goose chases.For once I agree with Peter,

"Just one point. University professors are not government employees because Universities are actually not government insitutions, but independent chartered institutions."

This point, in law, is correct.Terry2 

You are alluding to reasonable doubt in a number of ways there. 'Reasonable doubt' does not apply in tort law. It is either proved, or it isn't, and damages awarded, or dismissed. No room for fluff or casting of 'doubts'.

Stick to criminal law where simple thin edge of a wedge is a regular tactic.

I also think you have missed the point, the 'medium' is not the issue here at all. Who cares what nondescript pen or blank piece of paper you write on or where you got it from, or how you obtained them for personal use.  

That's also criminal law. Not tort law.

Valid points Peter,

"The standard of proof in all civil law is the balance of probabilities." Correct.

And indeed civil law has a higher standard of proof which is why it is a more difficult area of law to practice in. 

However, this case is not professor v uni (employee v employer). Your arguments of uni policy are irrelevant as 'the Uni' is not a party for or against here and will not be compelled to have any legal input into a civil case that does not concern them. It is professor the individual v media outlet the incorporated individual (same thing as individual).

Does anyone read the article, or who v who is actually being discussed?@damon,

I hate to break it to you but any 'private' or 'public' organisation owns your emails. They are sent using an official workplace email address. Not only do they have the legal right to monitor them (which both private and public workplaces have the right to do - and indeed do as regular practice), they also have the right to dismiss anyone who contravenes their terms of employment and/or contract conditions as outlaid therein. 

It is equal to sending an official written letter using the official letter head of your employer. Employers have rights of reputation when their letter heads are used. They also have rights to know what is written. This is not new, not even in the email age. Employees only have rights under their terms and conditions of employment in regard to communications using offical instruments of the employer.  

I would need to see the individuals contract to see if that individual has the right to circumnavigate their employers' rights of reputation, but in this case i would imagine it is highly unlikely. The only legal question will be how the emails came to light. If it was from employer, or direct receivers of said emails the outcome is unlikely to be defendable. An attempt to 'sue' an employer, "the university", in these circumstances would not be successful.

Incidentally, 'Party's' (big or small) are for personal out of work hours time, as is the time for personal email account usage (sensible or otherwise).Rubbish anarcho, 

All local Greens candidates well prior to polling day have a clear outilne of their policies. Just becuase you dont bother to read them doesn't mean they dont exist. They are clear policy ideas and they follow through as voted for.

To claim anyone knows what the local Lib candidate (aka what whims the lib leader wants at any time they want it) will do after you vote for them is fanciful at best.Hi anarcho,

I am quite familiar with all of the authors you mention, and have read many of their works. Humans are pluralistic creatures and none of them were immune from this fact in their writings or ideas. Be they philosophical or political Aristotle goes rather far back. 'Zoon Politikon', roughly translated as political animal but more correctly interpreted as 'rational animals'.

I suggest you read more of Bertrand Russell. For the most part he made no tangible points, and in the end went bonkers wondering if the table, his chair, or his room were in fact real.

Nice try though."Whitlam bought about enormous change in Australian society some of which has proved to be good and some changes were simply unsustainable in an economic sense."

Whitlam was in government over 40 years ago. The country is hardly broke. In fact it has prospered in that time. Unless you think he somehow planned the 2008 GFC also?

"the Greens are little more than political prostitutes who will nail their colours to any mast that suits them on the day."

The Greens I have seen at current seam the most intelligent of the current political crop. They have some fine examples at present via comparison to other 'reps' and 'senators'.  Perhaps they simply make better use of their higher education by using their educated brains properly, rather than being stooges to financial donors?

Like it or not The Greens are the last bastions of democracy in this country. Unless you prefer PUP holding a balance of power between the 'two' majors of the Unions party v the mining industry party/country lapdogs 'coal-ition'?




My logic is sound Dugong. 

Perhaps read the comment that this one of mine responded to before jumping to conclusions out of context.

Hint. Follow the grey lines going up the page and what they link to.Hello itstime,

What a great comment.

I encourage you to continue to comment on the world around you, and continue to be a part of intelligent debate as you learn and grow. University is all about that. Despite what the penny pinchers to the younger than themselves tell you it is, higher education is not just all about money. 

I hope you and your generation do not have to pay in the order of 100k to experience higher learning, and development of critical thinking skills the experience offers. And without only having dollar signs attached to your educational outcomes. There is more to education than just telling the young to have dollar signs in their eyes everywhere they look. As if that is their only path to worthiness. It is wrong, and unbalanced.

I hope this unfair penny pinching pettiness does not come to pass for you all in your generation. Some of us oldies are still fighting for future generations like yours. Don't give up hope :) 

And when you all turn 18. Vote. 
When the IPA are sponsored by an Ebola vaccine drug company they will change their tune to the new shake the money tree drum beat. And re-distort facts accordingly to suit the latest agenda for a pure profit making endeavour.

In the meantime I'd take anything they say with a grain of salt personally. And hope they are paying the ABC for their free and constant advertising, and not just holding our public broadcaster to ransom for being not 'rightist' enough in a bid to defend themselves as appearing to being too 'leftist' that they are unfoundedly accused of and punished for without fair trial.

Nonsense. Distract. Threaten. Fear monger. 

Then get high end, high paid, 'government' cushy job via the backdoor.David D,

"Addiction is not a disease ask any real doctor and they will tell you this."

What utter rubbish. 

With regards to children smoking in the 'poor' countries you speak of.... to pass their time? Rates have not gone down at all. You are a disgrace.@ Tom,

What did the big coal stack say to the little coal stack?

"You're too young to smoke."

har har har... 

Meanwhile back at the ranch, Joe Hockey says windfarms (that don't smoke at all) are 'an offensive blight on the landscape."

I guess they don't look enough like big fat cigars.

Why did he even bother comparing the pair or getting involved in it? Transparent and next to useless salesman as always. 

When I drive through the country side around Aus I see huge powerlines everywhere in a line right next to road with wires attached to one another as I drive all the way to wherever.

Sometimes even some huge smoking concrete stacks appear at nodes of these wire monsters that follow everywhere. Are they all an offensive blight on the landscape also?


Evidence enough for you who pays the campaign bills. That not even the nation's treasurer is not immune from product placement advertising, no matter how poor a sales pitch?"we learnt every thing from the American system"

Not yet, we don't have preselection of candidates. Let the real money be spent!

It would be a hiding to nothing here in Aus, tea party/ conservatives/republicans would get nowhere in this country, but some big spenders would lose some proper cash for trying it on for once."Conservatives generally have a different view on what should and should not be a personal responsibility. No doubt costs play a part. Wars whatever. Menzies whatever."

Enough said, a tribute to Gough in my view... 

Of trying to prevent such flippancies and wastage of so called 'conservatives' and simple mindedness of 'whatever'.

'Conservative' of what (if anything) exactly, remains as elusive as ever from the so called 'conservatives'. The 'conservative' type of ideologue generally has the depth and foresight of mere and pure selfishness. Nothing more, nothing less as anything beyond self and the here and now is all too hard.  

Rest in peace Gough, for trying to curb pure selfishness, lies, reckless immaturity, and lack or foresight, but the battle will go on mate. The foundations you and Margaret laid will not be forgotten by a largley fair and safe country you left us ALL behind.

@JRM

I think you'll find good 'ol Rupert had a big say in Aussie political leaders, voter sentiment and applied means of controlling the outcomes of elections even back in the days of Whitlam. Although, I imagine the wind is starting to fail in his old sails sometime soon too?

Sad.

Cue sunset and violins...

"Government for all versus government for the business elite"

Well said, couldn't have said it better myself. Someone is financially backing the Libs for political sway, lets stop kidding ourselves they govern for the 'people'. Its simply not true.

Who donates, or could afford to donate, to a party like the LNP?

Why do the 'freemarket' faithful return time and time again to bolster their govt influence? Could it be their one for only one, and one alone, and none for any other, is a flawed philosophy and they finally admit it with dollars they hold so dear? 


Coogara,

"Many of those who usually call for a debate and greater discussion basically are opposed to the whole idea and want to torpedo it."

Nonsense. They just don't want to go jumping off a bridge simply because someone tells them to. Its called 'critical thinking'.

And:

"The issues raised by Katie Wood are largely academic in nature. It is about what could happen but is largely outside the realms of possibility of happening."

You are aware of Katie Wood's credentials and experience in law right? Feel free to share yours with us."Besides lots of companies already have this data on you."

A) You agree to sign it over to them in your contract of terms and conditions. Its your choice.

B) Companies cannot imprison you, operate outside the law, or or obscure turth by hiding behind the broad brush 'a matter of national security' without scrutiny.Hi Yank,

"The Ebola virus and climate change are a threat to the world."

Unfortunately these things are 'invisible' and thus beyond the comprehension of our current govt. Do they really even exist? They can't see them...

Oh well, all the microscopes were sold off when they axed the ministry of science.I watched this episode of QA and I found the pollies the more lacking of the panel.

In the interest of disclosure... Obviously I voted for one side or the other in the last election (we all did that!), but I found them both very poor performers.

I'm tired of this highly competitive us v them environment if all it does is promote people to positions who don't know what they are talking about on a higher pay grade than ours.

I think people would respect them more if they just said 'I don't know on this one' I'll look into it properly and responsibly and get back to on that.Depends on the electorate in which you live though Bob,

If you live in an area where independent (or in your case Greens) candidates have a chance then it's a worthwhile option to consider voting for them. However, if you live in one where anyone outside the big two partys have no chance then it is simply a wasted vote. So people vote for least hopeless of them.
That's where I am confused. A good undercover officer infiltrating (to use you example a paedophile ring) does not change or add information to or of the suspects activities, they simply pose as one of their own and gather evidence so as not to taint it when it arrives at court of law. Thats what good officers do to catch them and incarcerate them proper. And good on them. Respect for that.

Adding to, amending, or changing any gathered evidence would taint what is known as the ?chain of evidence? and would be thrown out in court by a basic level half wit defence lawyer who understands 'chain of evidence' and knows a judge would have no choice but to comply in its breach. 

If anything, we would not be catching more perpetrators of unlawful acts and their perpetrators. We would just be letting more off on easily avoidable and minor technicalities of law. Brandis is a legal dunce. To have him as attorney general is an insult to the legal profession and the Australian people who rely upon it. Which is all.

It would be a field day, for mediocre defence lawyers everywhere if chain of evidence was not followed in some cases and not others. Throw it out, throw that one out too. The evidence has been tampered with, throw that one out also.

It is not a tightening of laws at all, but rather a loosening of them as if evidence came from a space craft and a court of law, be it trail by judge or jury were expected to uphold any decision with such massive opportunity for loop hole exploitation by the defence.   

If you want tighten up laws, start by getting an attorney general and underlings that know what they are doing.That might fly for the general public, but it wouldn't to a trail judge. It would simply be a closed trial and suppression orders issued of release of sensitive documents. 

The govt is not above the law (you may have noticed the amount of times our current govt have already been challenged in the federal court in their first year). If a govt want someone prosecuted and incarcerated they cannot say we can't tell you the evidence or how valid it is, just trust us and lock them up. That is not how the legal system works.

Good one Zing,

Bring welfare into it.

Perhaps you would prefer civil wars (we havn't had ANY), mass gun and knife violence, genocide, true institutional level corruption, huge prison populations, religous intolerance, failed healthcare systems?


I believe appropriate levels of welfare and safety nets are a long standing and valued component of this country for rather obvious reasons to most inteligent people if they don't recieve it 'directly' into their own bank accounts. 

What's the new one on doing the rounds, 'if you don't love this country then get out'. Or are only the heavily right wing allowed to use that one?




Rubbish its called a progressive tax system and progressive wealth distribution to minimise civil and prosperity disruption. It plays a major role in a largely violence free society, and civil libertarianism that we enjoy in abundance here in this country by comparison to others. A progressive democratic state, and progressive system of law is right up there in the mix of modern civilisation that help create this. Modern law is in fact a form of 'welfare' itself and largely paid for by the 'state'. And dare I say its mechanisms provide you with a profession in which to partake if your asserted  'screen name' is to be believed.

If you want to return to a regressive feudal era of centuries past with no real legal system or rule of law for the people beyond its upper rulers and the size of their personal armies to enforce it at their will and their private dungeons, guillotines, gallows and stonings I believe there are a few countries around still trying to run things that way. Good luck with that. Send us a postcard.  
@IB,

Separation of religion and centuries old views on contraception? 

Condoms perhaps? After all, rubber does in fact grow on trees.

Has to be a better start to recognise our finite world's resources than war and killing people already here also. Surely we are smarter than that approach at least.

Renewable energy?

Renewable fishing?

Renewable agricultural practices?

Recycling of waste products, paper glass metals?

Recycling water tech, grey water, sewerage, salt water desalination?


Minimising excess consumption, and planned obsolescence of 'sellable product for maximum profit'  for CEO, board, and shareholder corps personal financial gains? 
 
Plenty of ideas out there. We just need to listen and learn....Good comment Tom1

I am sick and tired of this bias 'debate'.

I have not once ever seen or heard any ABC personality, reporter, presenter, or staffer say that The Australian should be axed or its funding cut to undermine its capacity of future survival.

It is all well and good for The Australians' readers and/or supporters to say such things, or ABC supporters to such things in return but not the reps of the organisations themselves. 

News Corp has been around a long time and made a lot of people rich and its owner a billionaire. 

The ABC has been around for a long time also and its existence never stopped this person from attaining their huge riches. 

This is clearly a one way attack which Im pretty sure is the definition of bias. And its not really about anyone's content, its about News corps failure to adapt to modern markets. It is a  new paranoid and desperate low to attack uni courses for the woes of their own making.

Pathetic.  
Bill,

Name a single Australian that heads overseas that isn't there for a holiday, or economic advancement if working there.

Not quite the same thing as uprooting your whole life leaving your home for good, and desperately seeking asylum in a new land with a depleted and almost empty handful of hope. 

Grow up.AGB,

Once upon a time the male 'singlet' worn in public was colloquially known as the 'wife beater'. True, check it out.

Its worn at fancy dress parties on occasion these days with a stubby holder, short shorts, and thongs to kit out the costume in jest. Maybe a pillow in the belly area even to make it look even more authentic and laughable.

'Love it or leave it' is a natural progression of such values. 

Who doesn't like being forced to 'love' something...  or indeed have to 'get out' if they don't?

Ah, the good ol days. . . when it wasn't a fancy dress laugh but real. . .



"If that's the case, why are asylum seeker employment outcomes so appalling."

Because under the visas they receive they generally are not allowed work here, or leave, or come back if they, but are eligible for minimal welfare.

They have no choices. Welfare payments are below the poverty line and designed to drive them out, but home is high danger if not death.

What would you do? Risk working illegally and getting kicked out? Or accept poverty in safety?

Please get your facts right.There were international media reports at the time that a jet Putin himself may have been on flew over the same flight path an hour or two earlier. I don't really know if accurate reports.

This event is tragic there is no doubt about that. 

The fact is nobody as yet knows what really happened and the mechanisms, motives, or perpetrators behind the event itself in detail. It seams highly likely it was an act of war of some description. Intentional or otherwise no one seams keen to claim responsibility, which lends to the notion it was not an intended outcome of events.

Here there are lots of people arguing about it as though they do know what happened. The hysterics media amongst them with such a large public audience is a worrying state of affairs. What ever happened to innocent until proven guilty in this country? Or due process? 

I am growing ever saddened by this lynch mob mentality we are becoming. And level of care for facts, before judgement and sentence.

I can say as a fact though that there are many factions and splinter groups under the umbrella of the Russian military. The Russian military is extremely complex. And in reality are never wholly controlled by one national leader at any one time as the vast and various Russia is a difficult place to control by any one person.  

To come out chest beating and blaming Putin in such simplistic terms without even knowing what really happened is not a good starting point to finding out what happened. Lacking in understanding of international complexities and diplomacy. And quite frankly a foolhardily lightweight approach to an international powerhouse we can't even be bothered to get expert advice of before swinging aimless punches at. 
@JohnnoH

"like stiff arm", "Liverpool Kiss" or "spear tackle".

'Stiff arm' is a 'coathanger' like extended arm to the neck or higher without warning.

'Liverpool Kiss' is a headbutt.

'Spear tackle' is picking a player up and dumping them on the ground head first (at great risk of spinal injury).

All are currently outlawed in the modern NRL for obvious reasons.

'Actually' none of those equate to a 'shirtfront' which involved hitting the 'shirt' area. However, I believe this practice is also outlawed in AFL for obvious reasons of era's past.ChessNotsnap,

I think you'll find they have indemnity insurance, and many other overheads in order to professionally practice. General entry point is cover for $10mil in insurance cover alone, which is not cheap and as strait forward as they went to uni for 4 years and charge a $1000 for "hard couple of hours spent on those highly technical house parts."

Technical expertise has its mertis for good reason.

This isn't Bangladesh you know, where if the building collapses and kills people no one can sue you for being responsible for getting things wrong. 

The Block is an interior design fluff/shopping catalogue selection competition. Nothing more.

You don't see the real uni level professionals with the real legal and ethical responsibilities in the background (they're involved in every series). They're too sensible and boring to be on camera."If you are over 65 or severely disabled please excuse the above."

So no mention of the fact that 6% unemployment factually means there are not enough jobs for everyone in Australia and 6% miss out no matter how hard they try?

I doubt they are doing the many things in your complaints list there. Which I find extraordinarily irrelevant to the discussion. Who are doing all these things you speak of? 

The top level in the US have increased 200 times personal value and take home pay of the average salary of their workforce in the past two decades. Shouldn't there be more jobs for their staff and fellow country inhabitants then rather than less in they 200 times more able to share it?

"We are not wealthy - we are in debt"

In fact, we are one of the wealthiest nations in the world. The problem is falling revenue not expenditure for the lovely and fair minded country in which we all live, love, and feel safe in. Following the path of the US without proper critical analysis of its workings and failings is a dangerous prospect.  

Perhaps your long complaints list about what you see as the doing of a 'welfare state' are more directed at failings of an increasing pendulum swing to a 'freemarket state'.

That would only become worse if allow it to be a race to the bottom non economically or socially viable rationalisation of everything? Especially that which can be easily and non critically attacked by those that feel they can for an emotive ill thought out response, but not really understand what it is they are really attacking, or why, or whom, or how? Even if in the end it is fact. Themselves.

@AE

We all know you work in mining, and do very well financially. You say it every other day.

You are hardly an 'average' wage earner. So cry us all another river.

Nor are you exempt from Austrlian labour laws such as 'redundancies' if applicable and negotiated prior to your employment contract withion Australian labour laws. Which I wager to bet you DO in fact have rights to. But may not have in future if you keep chipping away at all that is fair and reasonable in the more average workforce because 'you' pay more tax than them...

How nice it must be to earn enough to pay more taxes than average becuase you earn more money than the average to do so.... 

Boo hoo : (Agreed AE,

If miners want more publically funded infrastructures then they should pay for it. 'Cut rates accordingly' of their access.

For staters land Diesel vehicles should be restricted to private property and should not be registrable for use on public roads until taxed at rates of non Diesel vehicles like everybody else.

Next, we can look at publically funded and/or subsidised port and rail networks that are not really publically available, but better to start with one step at a time for now. .

Then we can look at water availability for any given project in remote and dry regions where it is scarce and where it is diverted from instead so it can be used there, and general environmental taxes owed of the irreplaceable yet rapid removing of finite substances to future generations beyond just us. .


Its real simple.

What is important to the Abbot Govt and their political aspirations is 'real' important and 'urgent'. Lots of resources for them.

The states are not important.

All responsibilities are just being outsourced to them but with less funding for them to handle it, while the pile of money the fed gets and is responsible for such things also goes 'into getting back to surplus'. 

When things fall apart in health, education, law and order, science, environment, and overall welfare etc., and fed labor can no longer be blamed as it has worn thin. It will be blamed on the states instead. Heads will roll 'we assure you the people' no matter their political persuasion at lowly state level for these debacles and failures. Just not at Fed Abbott Govt level, as they outsource blame to any other than them. Especially when they are the actual cause.@phillip,

So why not put the $7 co payment back into Medicare and put an end to the agrument once and for all. Simple.

The Australian public smells a suspiciously rotten fish of $20 billion of public money going to the private sector somehow, and not to 'the debt and deficit disaster'. Or a 'sustainable Medicare'. Also simple.Well said lilly,

It would be for him though:

"Oh no, I don't have to pay Mrs cashier.

I did a pollie peddle today I'm covered for free.

In fact you owe me money for me being here. How would you like to pay? EFTPOS or Bank Cheque""who ran up hundreds of billions of dollars of debt and created a structural deficit"

Wrong the debt is not that high at all.

Structural deficit. Scrapping and abolishing taxes is what the current govt have done. And are doing... and are unable to reduce costs because they only tagret the people they don't have the populations support to target alone. And are increasing costs in other areas.

Medical fund, PPL, Armed conflict, security spending refunding tax revenue to billionaires from 20 yeasr ago etc.. more to come no doubt. 

Less education for teachers, doctors, nurses, engineers etc..

"all during one of the greatest resource booms in our history" occured during the Howard and pre GFC years.

"will take a decade or more to undo"

So we should be looking forward to 10 years or so of excuses and blaming everyone else but themselves then? Great.

Hong Kong...

1997? 

Out of the frying pan and into the fire.

None of our business? 

We are becoming a republic here then are we...? I must have missed that one.

As far as I can see there have been mostly peaceful protests, peaceful discussion for a fair change is everyone's business... Even here where our highest representative of law and state is the Queen Monarch of England (not scotland ireland or wales - england). 

Not overly 'democratic' is a born to rule monarchy and offsprings, but oh well. 

Take a look at coin sometime and still say nothing is to do with us beyond our own shores.

Lazy is, as lazy does. And neglect is, as neglect does.I agree 'parliament' is an English word and an English/French concept based on Greek Democracy and voted for by 'eligible' members of the public to represent them in all those periods. And the influence of monarchs have been diminishing over the past few centuries in Europe to little more than tokenism and tourism. 

?British? is a broad brush term in this context though. In truth many have fought intellectually and physically for such changes to occur in these centuries in 'Britain'. Not all 'Brits' have been one and the same. 

For example, women have only recently been considered valid for the right to vote 'suffrage' less than 100 years ago both there here and the US. A nanosecond in the context of timeline of human history.

As for mainland China. Is it communist, or capitalist? Whats the agreed system of function for its peoples? Who knows? I don't.

But certainly not democratic based on factual evidence that there is no vote or right of 'suffrage' for anyone at all...

Confusing? Indeed. I would find it confusing in HK and China too.

A little bit of this, a little bit of that, but no definitive or resolved answer. 

They have every right to ask questions in a modern world, and everyone knows it.Not a big fan of Josh Thomas myself.

Not because of 'orientation' in any way, but because of the look at me self centeredness of every project he gets involved with. Its more or less all about getting back to him... Not all 'gen y' are like this really so its an unfair misrepresentation of them. And the general and obvious commercialised sell out he partakes in very wilfully we are all supposed to not notice. 

Pretending to care beyond the little bubble of the world according to self... too little, too late.

Good messages get lost when all you ever do is talk about, and focus on yourself.'free market' is just double speak for less competition to the already 'haves'. Who are the real power hungry commies then hey?

The 'lower taxes' party indeed... More service to the select few high end recipients of a civilised society, for more cost to the 'many' that they regard as unimportant.

Doesn't pass the logic or common sense test, but doesn't bother them a great deal. Don't expect that to change anytime soon. Just be more discerning about who you vote for, and who they 'really' work for.I agree pocket,

"Actually, you're in the "arguing sides" game up to your eyelashes.."

Spot on. 

Substance and crititcal thought and /or analysis is becoming increasingly absent in this country. Its just i chose this team so they must be the best team, becuase 'I' chose them and it reinforces 'my' choice of my 'team'. 

The rest beyond that is generally just noise and hot air. Not discussion.Civil liberties, within 'reason'.

In fact, many decisions in law are based on the 'reasonable person test'. That is not an actual person of course, but a definition of what a 'reasonable' person would decide.

Without it the legal system would erode very quickly. Not good for you or I Ben.

You omit and cloak the very well known term in legal profession.

"reasonable"

In an attempt to make a short sighted, and slightly hopeful argumentative win.



@ whogoesthere

And therein lies the sad level of debate in this country at present.  


More 'Me v Other' anyone?

'Eternal' opposition seams a rather long time.

Or have we had enough of what that is like in reality yet?

Leave the church to the church. And the state to the state. 

There is a long standing tradition that they should be separated. And life on earth goes on without any major dramas.

At present in Australia 'a' church and 'a' state have once again become intermingled, and separations of these concepts confused all over again.We currently have the hideous and perfect example of the old adage of 'transfer and promote them to another area or dept so we no longer have to deal with them' group of individuals in charge of this county. 

Promote them all you like and pass them on to someone else, but in the end, pathetic is as pathetic does. It doesn't change by promoting them to someone else's problem as by definition you are giving them more power, and say.

Unfortunately, J Bishop is the lesser evil in the LNP at present. Fact.

And the Nationals are as absent minded and meek as they ever were, not much has changed there, so don't count on them to do much politically for anyone either. Give them a doggy bone and they roll over with glee. Pathetic examples of going into the 'big city' also.
Sorry, I'm confused Roger,

Which 'Julia' are commenting on here in this comment?

Some snippets of info, and what to think, would help. Yes? No?And I'm not sure what Julia Bishop can do about the Ebola virus if it ever hits our shores as an 'invisible' can't see it  in the air 'gas'. 

Given there is currently no federal 'science' minister in this country. Why? Who knows? 

I don't envy how hard her job must be.

I prefer to watch the movie 'Horrible Bosses' for lighter relief.Well said grey,

No one wants these small minded puppets except for two billionaires pumping spare change into them.

We all know which two billionaires, but for those less informed here's a hint:

They no longer live in Australia. 

Our country is nothing more than a 'business interest', not a home.


Clive might be a bit more out there sometimes, and I don't agree with everything he says to be honest, and I don't think he would expect us too, but at least he still lives here so its a bit more 'real' from him.

The battle of the Billionaires for control of TA and his motley crew they charged him to assemble is being rather lost by the lazy ones who don't even live here anymore.

Who is the more foolish? 

"The fool, or the fool who follows the fool?".@Graeme

If you only 'have 1 house' selling at half price and moving to another at half price also doesn't make much of a difference really does it? 

'Greed' wouldn't really come into that equation if you only need '1 house' at a time...A complete non issue in my opinion. As TA said himself the amount of people entering parliament house with such attire is 'to my knowledge none'.

So why bother bringing it up at all then? What a bunch of PR 'deficit' and 'disaster' fools. 

Is there anything they haven't had to back pedal away from in the past year? Is it too much to ask for them to think before they speak/act?

@giveitarest

"but they should also not be allowed to wear head covering when driving either"

Err... have you ever worn a motorcycle helmet? I have... Let alone the clothing items you are expertly commenting upon of which I have never seen anyone 'drive' with anywhere, ever (a burqa).

I think everyone needs to calm down a bit here. Or, perhaps.. just 'give it a rest' already.@Tory Boy

So if someone is wearing something covering their face crossing a pedestrian crossing you can drive right through them 'as though they don't exist'?

Ah... the simplicity of the Tory. Perhaps you would pay more attention and slow down if they ('women') were dressed in an eye catching bikini?Actually, smokers contribute more tax dollars to the health system (and other systems on top with their high tax contributions), than personal vehicle drivers do to the road system alone. 

Petrol taxes cover very little of their personal vehicle addiction, let alone spill over to any other systems from taxes paid on top, in comparison tobaco taxes contributions.

On this one I am with Joe Hockey. Personal car drivers don't pay their fair share of tax for the infrastructure they receive for it (it costs way more than drivers pay in tax to build and maintain our road systems - so the money is coming from somewhere else in tax receipts). It was this way even before Howard froze the basic but not covering the costs tax of fuel excise some many years ago.

Increase fuel taxes comparable to what tobaco taxes are too I say. Then you can equally feel a fair taxpayer of the sum of all addictions being equal.Thanks aGuy,

Good clarification. No cuts have been made to anyone's bank account in any way. The interest rates on the accounts have just been reduced to zero is all. No biggy, whats all the fuss about.

After all, in the 1950's you could buy a house for 1000 pounds. Should still be able to buy a dozen eggs for less than a shilling. And no need to increase education or health spending given the population is getting smaller in this country, not bigger. Pure genius, why didn't previous govts work out these ways of saving money sooner. Just claim inflation, and population growth doesn't exist.Are you talking about the 2010 election Dramian?

Last time I checked she stood for it, and didn't lose it. And had less of a balance of power problem such as we are currently experiencing. 

If you are talking about the 2013 election though, the dud that replaced the Rudd is a different story to the one you are proposing in your comment. No?

No need for apologies: 

"Sorry it's not the answer you want to hear."

Many people can make up their own minds based on the facts presented to them, and don't really need pseudo apologies to get by in life.Good to see the attack dog ripping everyone apart on the world stage, savage chihuahua that one.

At least someone figured out its better sending Julia Bishop to important international meetings and greetings with the outside world. Whilst the overly noisy and aimless chihuahua wonders around in the backyard looking for little bones to chew on.It is the me's v the me's world... lacking in much foresight beyond the here and now... and ultimately them self above all other things despite having higher responsibilities and pay grades than most, and that they give their day jobs credit for.

Case in point. It is sad to watch question time these days, the childish high school behaviour and gee ups of 'our team' no matter what the substance of their debate, and moronic jibes, and its chairs conduct and director in some sort of staged pantomime for the lesser masses that also inhabit this country as though they are stupid. It has become a joke. Try answering a non rehearsed question for once, or any question for that matter. Is it really that hard to do?

A sad indictment of the Australian populace willing to believe anything, and never a fact or truth to be seen from our highest 'adults' in the land that never actually answer a question.

Depressing.

If this is the so called cream of the crop of 'private' school education products, then perhaps private school funding needs a good hard looking at in a future budget too. As 'merit' seams to have gone the way of the dodo.
@ Sack

Says an on the record here champion of 'enquiries' into the 'other team' that be not mine.

'Inquiries' I believe is the official word you are looking for though at such a formal and serious level of legal process, and outside of the daily rag fish and chip wrapping 'news' papers thats generally how its done. Correctly, sanely, and factually, without the hype and hysterical head spinning around until it falls off to keep us 'interested'.The problem with labor is they have a very talented team with a lot of depth to them, but the small minded always focus on 'leader' and not much beyond that.

Look at the LNP/Coalition or whatever they are called these days. Their numbers are large as elected members of parliament, but the talent pool is very shallow. At the moment I think most thinking voters would prefer Julia Bishop on every single portfolio, and the rest on permanent holidays until they quietly draw their pollie pensions and stop hopelessly bumbling about to look relevant and fiddling with other people's lives in the meantime.Speak for yourself Benny,

In the electorate I live in the candidate I voted for had a thumping majority win. And I live in a highly educated (not filthy rich - or overly selfish either) electorate, and we are not disappointed or regretful by our decision at the polling booth.

Think before you vote. Go figure.Don't buy into this less than 10% nonsense.

Where did that 'fact' or 'figure' come from?

Yet another sensationalised lie. Strait out of the confuse, distort, instil some fear, divide and conquer playbook. 

Too much of it around these days. Don't get sucked into it.


Agree harvey,

In one short year I have lost all respect for Malcolm. Once a proud man of principal, decency, and of true leadership quality. Now just another bullied toe the line lackey with no opinion or aspiration of his own anymore.

Sad, but true.I hear ten is pretty efficient with their 'news' team. As in they don't really have much of a 'news' team anymore, and its filled with infomercials of blenders and stone cookware, and hollywood gossipy goodness instead. With ratings worthy of their news 'efforts' plummeting... Did I miss something in business model school?

No proper news. No longevity, and in the end, no Network. 

Simple as that.
big joe,

"if the ABC made any attempt at impartiality it would probably be not facing it's current dilemma"

I think what you meant to say is they dare and care enough to be impartial, as they have always been. Lets not go too overboard, shall we.

Otherwise it would be nothing more than the Abbott Govt propaganda channel/s, radio/mediums, platforms. Going against them in any way is evidence of not being 'impartial' enough. Not even Howard was that insecure, and quite frankly, stupid.

For what is increasingly looking like such a short lived govt of Australian history (comercial media or otherwise reporting on them) I don't think many argee they are worth killing off the ABC and its long history for... in their short lived political 'top of the pop charts' meantime. 

APM,

'Left wing' in politics derived from; for the people, and democracy (an idea from earlier times). 'Right wing' derived from for the King and/or Queen of the day. The terms come from the earliest days of parliaments in Europe where parliaments were first invented. Mostly in peoples protest against divine right to rule over others as gifted by 'god'. It was where the two sides physically sat in the room in front of the King/Queen who sat in the big 'chair' in the centre of that room as 'divine' ruler. Those who sat to their 'left' or those who sat to their 'right' were called 'left' or 'right'. 

There is no evidence the terms 'left wing' or 'right wing' were used prior to that, unless referring to birds.    

If in doubt, buy yourself a history book to appease your confusions, and enhance your understandings of the world around you.

Today, the terms are still yet undefined in practice, and in reality are still evolving. They are not absolutes as you suggest they are. Just arbitrary descriptors of physical spaces some centuries ago when royals family lines ruled all others in divine splendour, and their 'subjects' got fed up with them for it and requested a better way of 'ruling'. Still a work in progress, and requisite of continued effort. Not a finalised absolute at all.
