Interesting that the LNP would "go to an election as soon as possible"? 

Why, are the people that sick of Abbot and the LNP already? The longer they stay the more people hate foreign trained, foreign born stooges selling out the Public Interest to profit the people that paid for his all expenses paid scholarship and election campaigns.

Thats a sign of the times.Right on General,

Its time everyone woke up. We all have been led to believe democracy is a choice between poo flavored chocolate and chocolate flavored poo, thats not the case. Thats why they need the corporate donations because everything they offer is crap and they need to spend up big on marketing propaganda brainwashing come election time.

The Constitution say we have 226 independent members of parliament that represent the views of the electorate. There is no office of the PM, no opposition and everyone elected to parliament is part of the government, not any more. The government apparently is the biggest gang thats taken the most bribes.
Karl,

If you think we are too stupid to vote for real people and ts better to vote for a company that takes money off foreign governments, perhaps we need a referendum to reduce the seats down to 2 or 3 or maybe 4, at least that way we could get our hears around who is who right?

Do u understand that these corporations take money from foreign governments and foreign interests and the gangs have locked people out of parliament. You can't get voted into parliament without buckets of money, so the NWO and the ALPLNP corporations will be in control of our democracy as long as we allow the constitution to be overthrown.

Did you know the ALPLNP change the Constitution every year at COAG to suit themselves and centralise power to persecute the people? See if you can find in the Constitution where power is centralised in the office of the PM and where it defines an Opposition i.e an elected member of the parliament that is not part of the government.

Do u understand that both the ALP and LNP are open to donations from the highest bidder and they will write you  your own piece of legislation for under $100K? Do u comprehend that if you buy up both parties you never loose an election?

Is that the democracy our Constitution provides or a total overthrow of democracy by the wealthy corporate elite?

Do u know who paid for Abbots education and why they would be such kind and generous business people? What do u think they want out of our PM?

I suggest you go back to the books and contemplate a real democracy and go read the real constitution, not the one written by the ALPLNP Corporations.

Alan i didn't realise people where that ignorant, perhaps we just need 2 or 3 seats and do away with the rest of thats all the representation we need and can interpret.

Lets just scrap the constitution and get rid of the 226 seats and the whole represent your constituents thing and ensure that MP's just do whatever they're boss and financiers want, much safer hey??

Its far safer to have the ALPLNP Corporations in charge isn't it and of course they work for foreign interests and foreign governments and open to the highest bidder??

The highest bidder of course represents the public interest.

"Political Parties are a natural evolution of the democratic process," Nope that is how democracy has been bought out by the wealthy elite, you have to have similar money to compete with the gangs and the only one with that sort of money are the NWO and the odd dig it up and burn it quick coal miner.

If we got rid of the gangs we would be left with 226 independent members who represent their constituents, scary stuff hey. Sounds exactly like our Constitution.

Tell me, you know so much, is the Office of the PM a constitutionally recognised corporation with its own ABN Number? Why was power centralised and taken away from MP's?

The ALP sold Australia on the US Stocky and we are now under the jurisdiction of US corporate regulators, how safe is for the gangs to be in power you think? Would the people of Australia or 226 independent members voted for this sell out?Insideout,

A young Gough would not be allowed in the front door of parliament house. 

The US had to pull some pretty big strings to have him thrown out and the NZ PM disposed of at the same time. Gough and the NZ PM where tryng to get the US out of Australasia. Since then the US has taken complete control of the ALPLNP and pay them both to do their dirty work.Bloody,

Do u think the ALP would be any different when it has total control of Australia again. Nope.

The opposition always looks better than when they where not in government. A new face doesn't change the system. The ALP and LNP and the Gr's and PUP are all sell outs.

Its the gangs that got us into this mess and they have no intention of getting us out of it. They don't have to, they just have to pass the ball amongst themselves and centralise power. Thats the point of it.

It takes money to get into parliament lots of it and the only ones with money are ALPLNPGr'sPUP, so thats who makes the laws and has control of our military and we all know they take money from foreign governments and foreign interests.Los,

Lets hope so, we need the gangs out of power and reinstate a constitutional democracy before its too late.

It may already be too late, Australia was sold on the US Stocky back in 86 and now the country is under the jurisdiction of the US Corporate regulator. We have US troops and CIA all over Australia and in parliament house. They run the place, the people or the public interests does not even get a look in.

The NWO have made politics a very expensive business through corporate dnations/bribes, whereby only the gangs can compete.Chris,

"No one has to vote above the line." Who changed the laws to allow voting for gangs/corporations above the line?

Did the corporations change the electoral laws to centralise power to the gangs by inserting this into our democratic process?

Do the gangs take money off foreign nationals and foreign governments and do their dirty work for them? Is that why the public are sick and tired of the gangland system and want a return of a constitutional democracy? There is no office of the PM and no opposition in the constitution. 

If you are elected to parliament you were part of the government, but not any more. Its the gang that takes the biggest corporate bribes to spend on brainwashing propaganda come election times wins the election and continues the sell off."There are no corporations or gangs involved."

What rubbish, do u know the ALP and LNP have ABN's and are registered companies? They are in the business of attracting donations and they take them form anyone including foreign governments.

"The reform does not centralise power. " of course they do, gangs go above the line, people go below the line. Its designed to make it nice and easy to vote for gangs with a single tick and hard as to vote for people where you have to fill in every box correctly and sequentially.

"Constitutionally, you retain the right to vote below the line." So were the changes constitutional? Nope they were changes made by the ALPLNP for the ALPLNP? Its gang warfare and thats why people are sick of politicians, they do not represent voters they represent there donors.Is it just a coincidence that Malaysia was hit twice by terrorists? What nation state has it in for Malaysia and why?

Is it just a coincidence that an illegal invasion killing thousands of people began on the same day and that the people are so outraged with this blatant form of terrorism that this invasive terrorism is largely ignored by the media and the public?

Is it possible that the plane was bombed over the Ukraine internally and the cover-up is to claim its been shot down by the Russians? Not a bad coverup, it believable for the uninitiated mass media sheep.

Coincidence, i think not. Where are the investigative reporters in Australia? How many Malaysian planes have to be blown out of the sky before people start asking questions?



"all that we really know is that a Malaysian Airlines flight was brought down by a surface-to-air missile while flying through the middle of an active war zone."

Nope, thats just what the US are saying. They where not able to get access to the crash site and so really have no idea. I doubt it was shot down, it was likely blown from within. This one though was made to leave a debris trail to point towards the Russians, as opposed the previous act of terrorism against Malaysia, which was designed to not leave any wreckage and yes its possible.

"It doesn't take a rocket scientist to figure out that flying though active war zones when you don't have to is probably not advisable from an air safety point of view"

Yep its the perfect red herring. No one would suspect a false flag attack to divert attention for the mass murder of Palestinians. How easy to blame the russians while your own terrorism is perpetrated.

"Simply punishing those responsible will not make our skies any safer, or reduce the possibility of another tin of innocent people being shot out of the sky over another war zone."

To the contrary, if the world waa aware who keeps dropping these Malaysian Planes, perhaps they will be brought to the ICC and suffer indefinite world wide condemnation. It is not too far off, it will happen.

"Airline corporations need to remember that, in aviation, safety is always paramount, even when this means using a little more fuel and taking a little longer to arrive."

No, these are acts of deliberate and premeditated State Based terrorism and false flag attacks to provide a very convenient diversion for an all out invasion and the killing of innocent Woman and Children.Malaysia airlines are having a bad ran of it. I wonder what they were doing flying over the top of a war zone? Its been going on a for a while so they must have known the risks. They also have Iraq, Afghanistan, Syria etc to worry about so they know what they have to deal with and fly around it.

When a plane drops off radar, this is what one would expect to find. To make a plane disappear from radar it has to go straight down or cease to exists in some other way i.e nuclear. 

The loss of MH370 from radar was inexplicable. It is very weird that the US told MP Abbot to go look in the middle of nowhere for it. Abbot spend $100m on the search, knowing full well that no plane appeared on any of our military radars, not Christmas Island, not on our flotilla's radars to the north, nothing. He knows other governments where saying they lost track of it at exactly the same time.

Makes you wonder.

I hope all the right wingers are prepared for the rush of climate refugees coming our way as a result of your governments climate disaster policies. There will be more hydrocarbons burnt this year than last yer and this will continue for years. 

Taxes don't fix climate change or reduce the gross amount of carbon consumed, look at fuel tax its has increased the use of fuel, laws may work by the ALPLNP wont make laws there effect their economic dependency.

Get ready for the influx right winger stooges, the agreements have already been signed by the ALPLNP.It does not matter what the people want, the ALPLNP run the government and bureaucracy. If the ALPLNP gangland bosses tell the military to kill them all, thats what they have to do. Its no different to Hitler. 

The 2 most corrupt business in Australia owned by the Corporations do not have to care what the people want. They both want offshore detention so that is the way it will be.

The contracts to detain refugees indefinitely are lucrative contracts and that is why there multinational business pay the ALPLNP.

A choice between the better of two evils is still evil and that is all we are left with in Australia, democracy has been bought out and the ruling elite are nothing but corporate stooges and good liars. Thats why the corp[orations pay the scholarships of the ruling elite and pay millions for election propaganda

Every ALPLNP government since the US Australian Vietnam Invasion has been crap, what do u expect when these are the only 2 political corporations with the money to pay for mass brainwashing and propaganda and keep getting reelected."we did not "Invade" Vietnam" does this include the secret war in Cambodia where millions of bombs where dropped?

How about Iraq and Afghanistan, we we invited in there as well?

The basic analysis is the ALPLNP do not represent the common good or the majority of Australians views, they represent corporate interests. 

Our bureaucracy is really no better than Hitler in moral terms, we are just better at hiding it. How many people do you think the ALPLNP have killed approving for use poisons never tested on humans and having synthetic estrogen as part of the food chain and not be able to produce an investigation on it in over 20 years of time wasting?

How many Australians are suffering from Hormone Related Cancers as a result of the ALPLNP taking corporate bribes to allow hormones to contaminate the food supply? The answer is about 3 times more than 30 years ago. 

Acting like the ALPNP as pirates on high seas, locking people up indefinitely and murdering them in overseas detention centres is very similar to Nazi Germany, including the secrecy on 'Operational/Bureaucratic' matters. 

What are the ALPLNP ruling elite doing with our money...we are not allowed to know.There is nothing legal about refugees being sent to foreign jurisdiction to be murdered and excluded from Australian law.

Its one law for the rich migrants and one law for people seeking refuge from the worlds Hitlers. The ALPLNP are both breaking the law and people should never vote for these cartels ever again, no matter what face they put up front. There a scam. Get rid of the gangs.KK,

Morison was the minister responsible for sending refuges to be murdered overseas. There's the blood and the whole rotten corps. He's so guilty he's stopped the bureaucracy or anyone else even telling anyone who he has had killed overseas."The recession we had to have" was after Keating sold Australia on the US Stock market as part of floating the dollar. 

The plan was to drive Australians broke and be forced out of real estate so that the new empire could come in take economic control of the country and send us all broke, except the Ruling Elite of course. This way we would be forced to sell every public asset to US Corporations.

The long term ramification of the deceitful Rhodes scholar's decisions (along with the entire ALPLNP) to sell Australia on the US stocky, means the Commonwealth of Australia is now under the jurisdiction of the US Corporate Regulator. 

Nice work ALPLNP voters, you keep voting the cartel back in. Of course every government decision is for the corporate Interests of the ALPLNP and there campaign/propaganda financiers. 

Thats why people hate modern politics it does not serve the common good. All it takes is enough money to buy the ALPLNP and our military and natural resources are under your complete control.


"The recession we had to have" was after Keating sold Australia on the US Stock market as part of floating the dollar. 

The plan was to drive Australians broke and be forced out of real estate so that the new empire could come in take economic control of the country and send us all broke, except the Ruling Elite of course. This way we would be forced to sell every public asset to US Corporations.

The long term ramification of the deceitful Rhodes scholar's decisions (along with the entire ALPLNP) to sell Australia on the US stocky, means the Commonwealth of Australia is now under the jurisdiction of the US Corporate Regulator. 

Nice work ALPLNP voters, you keep voting the cartel back in. Of course every government decision is for the corporate Interests of the ALPLNP and there campaign/propaganda financiers. 

Thats why people hate modern politics it does not serve the common good. All it takes is enough money to buy the ALPLNP and our military and natural resources are under your complete control.


"what you come up with" is two political corporations with complete control of the Common Good. 

The political cartels however both work for corporate donations to pursue the corporate interest, so what u end up with is bad successive government until the people wake up and accept that a choice between dumb and dumber is not democracy. Its how democracy has been overthrown by the Corporations and money. Its happened all around the world in every democracy because its the easiest way to control a nation and its military.

If u control the ALPLNP, you can have Australian tax payers pay for any invasion you like, no questions asked. Australians will die completing the corporate interests of the ALPLNP ruling elite and corporations that pay for the ruling elites elections and scholarships.

If u pay abbot enough, he will go spend $100m of tax payers money on a dodgy search and rescue to coverup international terrorism. That is all it takes.

"none of the rest of us can hear those voices"

Yes from experience i do not believe anything that comes out of the mouths of the ALPLNP ruling elite or murdock or packer or the US.

Keep reading the media's agenda, that way you will never have to use your own brain and you can remain in ignorant bliss until the system fails, which it surely will.
"Do you know something that the rest of us don't?"

I will answer that with a series of questions:

1) Why did Abbot start searching in the middle of no where, when there was an absence of military radar evidence showing that it even came this way?

2) If the Navy can locate every little wooden boat on the high seas how can it miss a 777 reported missing not far away?

3) If the Australian military with its state of the art over the horizon radars had no radar evidence of it coming here why did abbot divert the search from Malaysia to Australia and cost us $100m?

4) How can a plane drop of at least 5 military radars at exactly the same time and not leave a trace of debris?

5) Why haven't any Australian journalists asked these very logical and consequential questions to MP Abbot or the Gov?

6) Has a failure of governance and journalism in Australia allowed the perpetrators of the MH370 disaster to drop another bird out of the sky?

7) Is Abbot covering up International Terrorism and mass murder for his foreign mates?

You can make up your own mind what happened, but to seal the deal go and find out what nation state has it for Malaysia after a court case concerning international Human Rights and Genocide claims?

I find it amazing that so few people in Australia have a mind of there own and believe anything that comes out the US or Australian Governments. 




Its almost a waste a time, but Zing, i'll try again.

1) Most radar detection comes from the plane's radio, radar and electronic signals. If a terrorist switches those things off, the plane is flying blind - but it is also far more difficult to detect.

Wrong, Radars are ground based systems, planes can not switch of ground based systems, this is why stealth is so elusive. Even during Pearl Harbor more than 60 years ago, Radars could pick up incoming planes, they have only gotten better. I am ashamed to think that some people are so ignorant and arrogant to dismiss common knowledge to coverup genocide and terrorism. Radars are radars and they don't miss 777's, especially hundreds of different military radars all around the world. The plane was blown up and it was a direct act of terrorism. The plane vanished from Military radar.

2) Because these boats *want* the navy to find them. The moment they get to Australian waters, their mobile phones and radios start firing off calling for transport and lawyers. That is how the navy locates them.

How many planes and GPS trackers where on board MH370? Plenty, still nothing. The navy have got radars, that show they find them. The Christmas island incident proves your theory to be hollow, the refugees got to Australia without informing the navy. Why would they contact the navy just to be turfed into the high seas and there boats burnt?


3) Because estimates based on satellite pings indicated the plane might have landed near Australian waters. And just because it did, doesn't mean it will be found. The ocean is deep and very large.

We have got military radars designed to pick up planes and the stealthiest of planes. Commercial Pilots cannot interfear with that. Your theory is just a conspiracy theory that no one believes. We all know what radars do and we have the best in the world. If it came here Abbot would of know where to look. The sat data is a NWO company who where responsible for blowing it up, if you believe them you are more pathetic that what i gave you credit for.

4) See answer 1. 

Wrong, Military radars are designed to pick up planes. Pilots can't turn off military radars. It was blown up.

5) Because the answers are already known. 

Nope no one can explain why it dropped of all military radars at the same time. It was Nuked. Military radars my friend, there's no arguing with the evidence. It did not come here and Abbot and the entire Aussi military know it. They know what radars are for and what they do, unlike yourself.

6) You assume that the events are linked.

A certain country has it in for Malaysia for exposing there war crimes, coincidence i think not. A passenger plane being dropped takes the heat of Israel to continue it genocide and terrorism. Abbot will cover them for as long as he can and send us broke doing it, he doesn't care he's been told what to sayThe truth,

Do you understand Keating sold Australia on the US Stocky and that this was the big reform? Why didn't the US list on our stocky?

Reform is the propaganda tool the ALPLNP used to brainwash the masses into going along with the joke, its still works today for the ignorant amongst us. 

It was not reform it was a fire sale.ALPLNP stooges will probably prefer to keep there heads buried because this is unjustifiable, but the epitome of the political cartels.

The people that paid for Keatings Oxforisation scholarship are the same guys that bought the nation. A conflict of interest????? Paying back a few debt perhaps? Was he just a US Stooge in the PM's office? Aren't they all?Realist, 

Howard sent us broke in 2 x 13 year unsanctioned middle east invasions, thats why the country's broke. Now kids can't go to the doctors for free. He also made us terrorist targets. 

What he did do is bring in plane loads of migrants to increase house prices and destroy the quality of life for everyone else. He also put taxes up 10 % the stooge.

The ALP are just as bad as the LNP if not worse. It is daft to just oscillate between the 2 of the Corporations, they are bought out by the same foreigners. They are business don't forget and the 2 most corrupt business in Australia."What Keating did has nothing to do with the horror budget Abbott has tried to inflict on us"

Rubbish he sold Australia to another country. That cannot be undone easily. The Aussie military is under the control of the US. Do we want to pay for every illegal invasion the US wants?"he has handled it very well"

Annabel, come on, where have you been? All Abbot has done is blame Putin and Russia for shooting it down. All Abbot has done is regurgitate the US propaganda without any basis in fact. He's just swallowed the bait hook line and sinker and that is his job in the NWO. 

You have discounted all together the extreme possibility that a certain nation has it in for Malaysia and that this country has just undertaken an illegal invasion killing thousands of woman and children without a UN sanction or any other form of international support. Killing people used to be called Murder, now its just called unfortunate if you drop bombs on civilian targets and launch illegal invasions. 

Is it not a real possibility that this plane was shot down to fill the airwaves with red hearings to divert attention to the real atrocities being perpetrated??? Maybe its just a coincidence that 2 MH planes have been blown up this year so far and that the second went down on the day a deliberate and premeditated mass murder in Palestine was played out.

The dropping of a plane and blaming in the Russians has taken the emphases off Israel and put it onto Russia, some would consider that a masterstroke of false flag terrorism and an excellent diversion for the NWO media.

As for Abbot he can't find a plane that apparently flew right over the Cocus and Christmas Island Radar Stations and the entire Australian Navy. I would not put him into the category of the sharpest tool in the shed or a statesman, i would consider him to be a NWO stooge that does whatever he is told by the US without any form of recrimination, conscientious, morality or forethought. 

It is all just clever propaganda.jgm,

Abbot didn't find the plane because it did not come this way, he was just covering it up for the terrorism nations that blew it up. 

If it came here there would be military radar data, but there wasn't any. Thats Abbots job, that why the US paid for his foreign scholarship and are paying for his election campaigns, its an investment and it sure is paying off for them, not so much for us though, but thats the point.

Can u explain why Abbot spend $100m on the S&amp;R when the military did not see it our numerous world class radars? Nope no one can. Thats because it was a fraud and a coverup and the whole Australian military and intelligence network knows it. They all know we have the best radar system in the world. The Australian military know that Abbot was lying and is working for foreigners.Hub and Greg, to properly understand the motivation of the government and thus the decisions it makes, you have to ask the question what is the agenda of the 2 Corporations that run the country. 

The future of Australia and to a large degree its past is determined by 2 corrupt political parties that have centralised power to them. Is their agenda to make Australia a better country? Is there agenda influenced by foreign empires and there multinational corporation including the Big 4 Banks?

If the ALPLNP are financed by multinationals, banksters and various foreign governments then the outcomes of the government will not be aligned with the common good of Australia. This is what we are seeing across the board on Australian polices from the environment to GM contamination of the food chain, synthetic estrogen contamination of the food chain and water, increasing cancer rates and massive foreign lending causing a massive amount of money to be sent overseas every year which means less services and higher taxes.

If does not matter what people think the government should do, they do what they are told to by the ALPLNP and there owners. What this effectively means is the the government does not represent the people of Australias interests hence the spying and privacy rape and massive environmental destruction and a dying Great Barrier Reef and the permanent contamination of our aquifers.

It is the centralising of power to these few gangs that allow multinationals and foreign governments to control the government of Australia, its military, its people and its resources. Thats why the corporations pay for the scholarships and election campaigns of the ALPLNP political elite, its bribery and brainwashing. Thats the investment for them and it pays off handsomely as the political elite can lever the money of the people to make the corporations richer which is there only aim.

yes....the last thing the government wants is everybody sharing information on stuff they want buried due to systemic corruption and negligence. The corporate gangs in parliament don't want there cover blown."So prices change in different ways across different goods and services."

Yes, but isn't it funny that government for profit monopolies are rising 3 times more than anything else. This is what the ALPLNP's agenda has been. They are both responsible for the massive increases in cost of living, thats what there electoral donors want. More tax collected, more money can funneled off overseas to pay Australias tax to the NWO.

In a bid to rid the public of government utilities the agenda is to massively increase their income so that they can be sold off, similar to telstra. NBN will be next, then the mint, then the rest of the electricity, water and sewage companies. The politicians and thus the police and military where sold off years ago by the ALPLNP.

This is what happens under the ALPLNP Corporations, that is what they are paid to do. They have centralised power into gangs to ensure the public good can be sold out. We are effectively another state of the US, we where sold on the US Stocky in 86 and are under the jurisdiction of the US Corporate regulator. 

The US can't go to war and invade oil fields without Australia, that why they pay for the eduction of the ALPLNP ruling elite and send in tourists full of money to give to them and use multinationals companies to pay for commercial brainwashing. 

For the costs of a few perks to the ALPLNP, Australians pay for the US invasions and makes us terrorist targets.Just dont tell them who keeps knocking MH birds out of the sky and why these false flag terrorist strikes happened. We r not allowed to know, the ABC is keeping it a secret for the ALPLNP.

If they ask why MH370 was not picked up on any Australian military radars, tell them something stupid like commercial pilots can disconnect numerous military grade radars. I hope they dont ask why $100m was spent of S&amp;R when the plane never flew anywhere near here, as MP Abbot knew full well.

If they ask how to make a plane disappear, tell them to ask someone else but not the ABC or an MP. Definably don't ask MP Abbot."Carbon Tax, much hated by the ordinary people, was upon us, how much did the earth cool as a result"

The point of a tax is to raise money to reduce consumption. Look at the fuel tax it has gone up and up over 50 years and we are using a lot o more petrol now than we did then.

The gov could regulate development approvals and investments but that would reduce the consumption so the ALPLNP refuse to properly legislate. These corporations want to burn more carbon not less, stupid people keep voting the corporate gangs back in and things keep getting worse. Yes we are that stupid as a nation.The west has already created an opposition through its quest to dominate every country on earth. Many other countries have wised up to the NWO corporate takeovers either through experience or familiarity. Opposition to the anglo/catholic/jewish NWO includes anyone not aligned with the empires corporations.

After witnessing the senseless NWO terrorism, the non NWO countries have joined forces to bypass the failing NWO. The NWO Corporations have sent every host country into spiraling perpetual debt which will of course destroy the NWO countries from the inside out.

It is the NWO countries that have been sent broke fighting the wars for the NWO religious empires against non NWO countries. Countries like China and Russia have been gaining strength with countries like Au, UK and US have gone into debt fighting stupid unsanctioned wars that make us terrorist targets.

We r so stupid.Australia had no choice but to fight in WW1, it is a UK colony owned/conquested by the UK Crown. Was then, is now. 

The AU army now is under the joint command of the US and UK. Australia was sold on the US Stocky by Keating in 86 and is under the jurisdiction of the US Corporate regulator. If the US want us to pay for there petrowar, they just have to twist our arm with some false flag terrorism, similar to bali. All it takes is a bomb and the US blaming the Muslims and then they have got us to pay for and justify their invasion.

The ALPLNP work for the US/UK', not for Australians.
al,

what this scenario causes is Australian tax payers left with the tab for all US petro-invasions. We have no
choice but to invade other countries. If we say no we get snookered into position by way of false flag terrorism and instant blame and a sold out media. At least the US where smart when entering wars for the UK, they charge them for every bullet every minute, every dead soldier. The UK only recently repaid the WW2 war back to the US.

Being an international terrorist makes you a target for unplanned international terrorism. Most terrorism is orchestrated to lead public sentiment and sell a line in the media. Dropping Tsunami bombs off the coast is another way to ensure that we be a good dog.

When our democracy has been taken over by 2 corporations, the tax payer has no choice. Thats why the corporations bought out politicians and the whole political system. Its only costs a few all expenses paid scholarships for alplnp members and their kids and some legalised election bribes and they will say what the people want to hear and then do anything you want."prevent a small crisis from snowballing into the horrors of World War I" 

There is more to diplomacy than stopping wars, diplomacy and staged false flag terrorism is used as a means to justify war.

It was the same as WW1, diplomacy could of solved it before it became a war bu the diplomats wanted war. The UK did not need to get involved in WW1, but it did perhaps due to massive Jewish wealth and inducements to use this turmoil as a cover for taking Palestine and concluding the crusades which had been going on for 1500 years. 

The actions of WW1 is what is causing this current genocide in Palestine and it is the UK royal family and the US that are to blame entirely.

It was the same after the demolition of 9/11, diplomacy could of resolved the issue however the agenda was war and this was the propaganda to make the taxpayers believe 2 x 13 year wars, murder, genocide and organised international terrorism was justified. Diplomats use terrorism as a justification for the unjustified and with complete media control, the circle is complete, its war on demand for the NWO.What is really going is the Government has been sent broke by foreign lending and the NWO. What this means is the government collects taxes and sends more and more of it overseas to the NWO Corporations.

Look what has happened in the US, the US gov has to hand over 25% of its income every year to the NWO corporations, that means cutting 25% of its budget. They don't cut military budgets or policing or politicians wages and perks, they cut welfare. 

The governments has to sell of all public assets to help pay down these debts, which of course increases the costs of living due to the gifting of monopolies to NWO corporations. The populations has to be sent broke before those sorts of decisions are accepted by the electorate.

What we will see from here is higher taxes, lower services and a police state to counteract starvation, homelessness and desperation. The NWO corporations and ruling elite however are going to get even richer. The governments of the world will all be broke and they already are.

The ALPGr's and LNP Corporations are the problem. Get the gangs out of parliament.

"The nation has rallied around Tony Abbott and his response to the MH17 tragedy"

What is this. Obviously the writers do not read the blogs or are just stupid stool pigeons. Abbot has used this as a political football and in th absence of any information. His job is to just repeat what the whitehouse says. He will never do any more than that and he is the chief MP of our Country, what a shame!

Same as the MH370 search, he knew the plane did not come into our Radar Zone. Is he that stupid to believe a plane can escape our military radar? Nope he just had to do what the US wanted. He is covering up some very serious mass murders he should be in jail not parliament and the evidence does not lie. 

Is everyone to stupid to realise?Right on Rhonda,

Further to your point, isn't it funny that there was only 1 US citizen on board and they had duel citizenship anyway and no Israelis. It was the US that fist came out and blamed the Russians, as you might recall and they lost virtually none and MP Abbot comes out swinging against whoever the US told him to. Classic case of bravo shadow boxing by MP Abbot or classic air guitar solo.

Goes to show a foreign born PM paid for by overseas scholarships and election campaigns will only deliver what his foreign masters say. This is the epitome of the Ruling elite in the cartels that run the Public Service. The ALPLNPGr's even have foreign walk ins without a democratic election now. 

Thats how bad things are. Obama or anyone else i.e. the CEO of the CIA could walk right into our parliament without being voted in within 1 day of duel citizenship. The ALPLNP rewrite the Constitution every year at COAG to allow such treason. 

Get the corporate gangs out of Parliament and return the democracy to the people.
Err,

Go and ask MP Abbot how a plane could fly7 right over the top of Christmas Island &amp; Cocus Island advanced radar stations and the entire Australian Navy, each one with state of the art radars to find enemy planes at very high and very lo altitudes?

MP Abbot and the whole Military know what radars are and how they work. MP Abbot wasted $100m of our money on a US led 'go fetch dog'. How do you think the aussies out there felt knowing they where looking for a plane that did not come here as there radars where vacant.

Not only that, he caused the search area to be changed knowing full well it did not come into contact with our Military Radar. And no, pilots in 777 can not turn off 100's of our military radars. Abbot is covering up a mass murder and act of terrorism and the ABC and every other journalist in the country is too scared to ask our MP Abbot what the hell he is doing and who's interests is he acting in.Australia has not had a foreign policy since the 60's. Our only foreign policy is America, we do what they say when they want and the tax payer picks up the bill. 

Thats why the US pay the ALP and LNP election expenses so well and pay for all there scholarships. The ALPLNPGr's are all foreign stooges. We've been invaded.Sceptic Sam,

Spoken like a true Abbot. No one shall question what the US tells Abbot to say, classic LNP stooge.

What information did Abbot have to blame Russia for MH17? None...Zip. What does he do then, he send is in unarmed public servants as human shields at the commencement of  new offensive by the Ukraine. So he blames them then sends in unarmed troops to an area they occupy. That is just pathetic and stupid and ridiculous and typical of the ALPLNP Government.

"need to have a very good look at themselves" 

Well if you r so smart,maybe you can do what MP Abbot and the stooges could not, can you inform the public how MH317 apparently flew right over the top of the entire navy and our state of the art Jindalee Radar System without being spotted and why MP Abbot spend $100m of our money and risking Australians lives on a wild goose chase knowing full well its not anywhere near Australia? 

No one at the ABC has even bothered asking the question, perhaps because they are covering for the ALPLNP government.aguy,

"and when it is the rebel forces primarily making it difficult to gain access there is one main conclusion to make. " 

Mate, are the rebels fighting the unarmed human shields or are they fighting the oncoming Ukraine military offensive? Here's MP Abbot blaming the separatists in total ignorance propaganda while he puts unarmed public servants at the spearhead of an advance. Stupid, but hey thats his job thats why he says what he says and does what he does.

Just because the Eu and the whitehouse say they know who did it, as they obviously must as they announced it straight away, and they were so right about MH370 escaping all Australian Military radars and flying right over our fleet without us even noticing.

Maybe your onto something maybe the Eu and UK and US and Au and another euro country who has it for Malaysia blew it up to divert attention for some other event happening in the middle east as we speak and coincidentally started within a matter of hours around it.

How do u know it wasn't a bomb planted on board like MS370 but this one designed for obvious reason to leave debris as its a diversion? If the US know so much about world terrorism maybe they could of found MH370, except its now dust and don't want to find it.

Its ridiculous to assume that because the US said its true its fact, look at MH370 after $100m of our money still no trace. After an hour of the 2nd MH plane going down they automatically know its the Russians and so does MP Abbot.

Its all completely stage managed from start to finish, this is all a massive set up and Abbots a part of it. This is the return on investment.

APM,

While u r on your high horse, why don't you stop and count how many invasion muslims countries embarked on last century and then compare that to Christian Countries.  Christian extremists have caused more suffering than Muslim extremists. 

The most common form of terrorism is false flag terrorism, whereby Christian extremists and Jewish extremists undertake terrorism and then blame it on muslims or rogue states or countries the NWO want to invade for petrol.

It is more than likely that Islam was created by the Roman Catholics to keep the marauders out of Italy after the fall of Rome, hence the similar creation stories and not charging money to lend money, thus enabling to keep them relatively poor and defeatable.

Our government is run by religious extremists, the NWO religious empires control the ALPLNP."It is just macho behavior sending people into a war zone."

It sure is, especially when the Ukraine president who allowed the expedition on his part launches fresh military advances on the same place Abbot is sending unarmed AFP Officers.

This is just political grandstanding and is seen as just stupid political chest-beating. 

You don't send unarmed officers into a new advancement, what are they Human Shields?Its not so much an argument of whether the AFP should go in there, its a matter of how the whole thing is being orchestrated.

Abbot sent unarmed AFP at the forefront of an all out attack by the Ukraine. It would be like sending unarmed boy scouts in to Vietnam before the the US were driven out in an all out defeat.

The first thing Abbot did is blame Russia for shooting it down. There is no reason to not contemplate that it was a bomb on board, planted for a specific purpose i.e blame the Russians. Abbot sent unarmed public servants in at the start of an offensive, that is the epitome of stupid, no wonder the AFP got the hell out of there, that is just rediculous. 

I dont think Abbot and his fellow Jesuits are winning many friends in the armed services. Abbot has sent them out on many a wild goose chase to please his foreign mates and cover up for State Based international terrorism. All armed services know that military radars pick up planes, not everyone is as stupid as our PM. 

The US told Abbot to go look in the middle of nowhere and waste $100m of our money knowing full well it did not come here because we have one of the best radar systems in the world to id planes coming in from the Nth. Same with this one Abbot shot off a load of crap as soon as it happened and copied the US with no evidence at all. Then he sent in unarmed public servants to spearhead an offensive to be used as human shields. Ask the AFP officers what they think of being sent in under those circumstances.

What this false flag terrorism did do is divert attention for an unsanctioned invasion that is currently killing thousands of innocent people. Coincidence, i think not! 2nd plane this year for Malaysia and it was for very good reason on the behalf of the terrorists.

Abbot is a part of this whole sordid mess, if he didn't cover up MH370 with $100m of our money this one would not of happened.This is arrogant Abbots chest beating. Sending unarmed AFP officers to an active battle zone and criticising the holding force is just sheer stupidity. The first thing he did is regurgitates the whitehouse line without any evidence at all, he failed to consider that this a red hearing and a false flag attack to divert attention away from a certain unsanctioned invasion and war crimes currently being undertaken by a US/Au Ally.

This is the same as Howard the stooges chest beating when he massively lifted immigration to the wealthy and at the same time stopped processing refugees in Australia to bypass Constitutional Laws. He looked like an 2 faced idiot then, much the same as Abbot now, especially considering his dodgy $100m S&amp;R search for a plane that did not anywhere near our navel fleet or our Christmas or Cocus Island Radar stations.

Both the ALPLNP are working for the same big pot of money and are no different from each other when they have complete control of the parliament. They are both sold off to foreign corporate interests. They will merge when there combined vote slips below 50%, thats how different they are - ZERO.You need to see this in terms of political point scoring and international politics.

It is no coincidence that this happened the same time as a certain unsanctioned invasion and war crimes where planned by a certain US/AU ally. It costs a lot of money to get 2nd spot on the news and not top spot when you are launching an invasion.

Its no accident that 2 MH plans have been dropped this year. A certain country who just happens to be in the midst on an unsanctioned invasion has it in for Malaysia. This is false flag terrorism. Abbot just did what the US said, the same as MH370.

Obama said go fetch Abbot, good dog. They both knew full well what happened. Planes can't disappear from numerous military grade radars and not leave any debris without a certain type of nuclear device. That was just a cover and this is just a cover.  

Someone paid for Abbots overseas education along time ago and has been paying his and the LNPs election expenses ever since. This is the return on capital. Abbot will go waste $100m of our money covering for his overseas terrorist mates. 

That someone is a foreign based corporate empire, intimately connected with the unsanctioned invasions taking place right now. These same people own the world media and can peddle the crap coming out of corporate run governments.

Imagine if Australians had a say in our ALPLNP decision making? They would be forcd to act in those directions.

That is precisely the reason they do not want to make public opinions on issues known. If enough people want a certain decision and the gov does not to do it, they need to lie to the people and sell them a different story to cover the fact they are sell outs for corporate interests.

There is a very good reason why the ALPLNP have not done this already. The gov could set up a survey website for under 100k to guide MP's and senators, but they haven't because it would undermine the interests of Empire. Need to get the gangs out of parliament and our gov will start working for the people again."the resources boom was permanent"

This is the short sighted imperialist view of reality. We r the Great Southern Quarry and that is what the empire wants of us.

What happens when we have dug everything up just leaving gaping hole in the landscape full of contaminated mine water. The aquifers are nearly all poisoned with benzine radioactivity and salt, agriculture is failing, the soil is eroding, the reef and fishing stocks are dying.

We will be a nation of starving beggars. That is the path the ALPLNP imperialists are sending us down, highlighted by this shortsighted view on resources that they will last forever. In the process however we are destroying everything else.CC,

CSG gas pollution will cover most of Australia in the next 20 years. We r not talking mining  little area now, its most of Australia and its only just starting.

Its not about unlocking prosperity, it is about Empire and multinationals commandeering the Common Good and National Interest. 

As for ALPLNP apparent conspiracy, i am wrong in thinking that these 2 corporations are financially dependent on corporations for survival? It is also a conspiracy that these corporations also pay for there scholarship and their kids scholarships?

Why isn't the Office of the PM a part of the Constitution? Is that a conspiracy against the PM? Is that a conspiracy against the people to centralise power to corporate gangs in parliament? Is that why the ALP and LNP when in government go a little loopy and start destroying the national interests and Common Good?"convincing them to accept what the nation needs"

This is a common misconception. What the leader of the ALPLNP Corporations job is to tell mislead people in them selling out to the Corporate Interests. The ALPLNP's job is to sell out the Common Good for the Corporate Interest and try and pass it off as the National Good. 

Our GDP and stability of government depends on GDP growth, in other words how many holes the quarries have dug that particular financial year, it is not the measure of the National Interest or the measure of the Common Good.

The ALPLNP's job is to ensure the empires quarries maximise production. The consequences of which include ruining the aquifers, killing the reef and poisoning the people.

Leadership is about more than allowing massive holes to be dug wherever the empires corporations want them. Leadership is actually about protecting the Common Good. Thats what we pay MP's and Senators to do, protect the common good. The Pollies could not give a stuff about the common good however, they have debts to repay such as election donations and all expenses paid scholarships for them and their kids.

How about some discussion on the legality and ethics of the Office of the PM and why power has be centralised to a constitutionally irrelevant body. The Speaker use to do the job of communicating the decision of a democratic parliament. 

Under the corporate Gang warfare takeover of the ruling elite and parliament, power has been cenrtalised to one person and that one person is dependent on corporations for there election win by way of paying for expensive propaganda and brainwashing come election time.Did Rudd ever make one decision to protect the Environment? Go ask him about the illegal use of GLORICIDE and ask him how many people will die to his failure and his willingness to sell out the common good in favor of corporate empire goons.

Did Rudd do anything about our illegal warmongering in the middle east? How much of our money did he invest in ruining the place? 

The ALP and LNP are both different sides of the same coin. They represent Empire and Corporations. Even the Unions where abandoning the ALP when they had absolute power they are that sold out and systemically pathetic. When the ALP are in opposition they seem reasonable and then as soon as they get in its a different agenda.

The ALP get us into debt so that the LNP can sell up the rest of the pubic assets to there joint owners."The ethical moral (non military) world view is lost for now"

True, but it can't stay this way forever. The corporate empires have bought out the ruling elite in the ALPLNPGr's and they are sending every western democratic government into bankruptcy. One day it has to fail and when it does it will be all over the ALPLNPGr's and the Banksters, they are the most despised people on the planet.More like the rights war against the people, such as the Privacy Act excluding the gov from prosecution for privacy rape, or maybe Howards Illegal unsanctioned invasion and terrorism of iraq and afganistan. How about the right (ALPLNP) changing the constitution very year at COAG to further centralise power and over regulate the people with illegal laws.

If corporations stopped financing the right fasciest, they would all fall off the face of the earth, they are not programmed to think for themselves, they just do what the gov tells them. Thats why cancer rates have tripled in 30 years, you can thank your local Councillors, state and federal MP's in the ALPLNPGr's. They all take election bribes to sell there financiers carcinogens under false and misleading information, see GLORICIDE.We could try cutting costs in other departments like the foreign invasion budget which has sent the country broke for the last 14 years. Nope thats not on the ALPLNP agenda, its making kids sick...thats top of the priority list for the silverspoons. 

The corporations will be pleased, they make even cough up a bit more this election propaganda season or throw around a few more scholarships for ALPLNP members and their kids. They are getting pretty desperate.So if the ALPLNP are not interested in the wishes of the voters, who are they listening to?

Who finances the ALPLNP election campaigns and there kids foreign scholarships? Get the corporate gangs out of parliament house! The political corporations have been taken over by the same big pot of foreign money. 

Foreigners are using our military to there benefit and we are left with the bill and we become the international terrorists. The ALPLNPGr's are responsible for this mess and they should not be looked to for guidance to clean up the mess they intentionally create.
"The way Western nations are going"

Western nations are also all going bankrupt and getting involved in no win wars for foreign oil fields and are all taken over by the same big pot of NWO money, but that doesn't make privacy rape acceptable georgie.

The government is already excluded from prosecution from the Privacy Act so they are doing all this anyway, its just that they now want to be legally covered for doing so and use it against people in court to increase revenue from fines and stop any uprisings against a corrupt as all hell corporate government that is sending the population to oblivion.

This is the ALP and LNP at work, this is what they do and the reason why we need corporate gangs out of parliament ASAP and all thrown in jail for selling their parliamentary votes to their gangland bosses. They do not represent Australians at all, they work for foreigners and thats who pays there bills and offer inducements such as all expenses paid foreign scholarships/brainwashing.

AJS,

I think it should be illegal to have gangs in parliament. MP's are giving their vote to their gang leader in exchange for election funding from the NWO pot of money instead of representing their electorate. 

This is how democracy has been bought out by the biggest wallet, its so easy. If you have enough money you can buy up the ALPLNPGr's etc and that has what has happened. The gangs are there to stop an independent Australia.

I don't get why people have a hard time believing???? Most people are stupid, thanks to a largely vacant journalism sector and a stripped back brainwashing education.

Do u know the ALPLNP change the constitution every year at COAG to centralise power even further? The ABC could not care less and can't even be bothered informing the public every time the Constitution is changed illegally by the ALPLNP.

Do u understand there is no 'Office of the PM' or PM in the constitution and its entirely fabricated to overthrow democracy as per the constitution?The government is already excluded from prosecution under the Privacy Act. 

It doesn't matter about warrants when you are immune from prosecution. We have no privacy and the Privacy Act was called that by Howard to ensure we have no privacy, it legalised complete and utter privacy rape by the multileveled bureaucrazy.

This is the agenda of the ALPLNPGr's and they claim to work for Australians?? What a load of garbage, they work for foreign interests.MP Abbots job is to do what the US says, not act in Australias interest. His job is to pay for US invasions and cover up state based terrorists, he doesn't care if he wins the next election he and his kids are on the gravy train for life. The LNP's job is to take us further into debt to the US and sell off public assets to the NWO, the ALP's job is to take us into debt.

Isn't it amazing that we can't afford to send kids to the doctors for free anymore and need to kick people of unemployment benefits and health care cards but got plenty of money to throw away in the US bombing of Iraq. This is where the ALPLNP are at. This is what corporate gangs in parliament do.We as a community have a choice, we can either decriminalise euthanasia or we can allow people to suffer with terminal illness and die in pain against their wishes or off their faces on tax payer morphine for years.

What is it to be the Roman Cathaholic, Anglican Church way or a personal choice? Being that Abbot and his merry men are Jesuits i think the Roman empire is going to have a win here and with gay marriage and with anti abortion and with massive foreign debt.
Isn't it funny that the ALPLNP want taxpayers to insure the banks against their poor investments. If it was a regular business you would be on your own. If however you pay for the ALPLNP elections and pay for foreign scholarships for the ALPLNP ruling elite and there kids, all of a sudden the taxpayers have to pick up the bill for the corporate gamblers and Banksters. 

Let them all fail and relinquish their mortgages. This would be the best thing for the Taxpayer. Let the owners of the banks suffer the losses, after all its 100% there's.

The owners of the big 4 are the same 4 US investment houses so what is really happening is the tax payers is bailing out US investments. The ALPLNP work for the US and as Australia is listed on the US stocky and under the jurisdiction of US corporate regulators, so it is no surprise the ALPLNP have decided to insure them against all losses with our money.

That is the ALPLNP for you though.Where do u start with you Zing.

U appear to think that our military has not killed any Iraqis, instead they are just killing themselves. There is no point trying to change your mind, the rest of the world knows what happened. Howard and the LNP used the Australian Military to go and invade another country (very rich in oil by coincidence) without a UN Sanction.

In anyone elses book, that is State Based Terrorism. If u don't agree, flip the situation on its head if Iraq and Afghanistan did the same things here, you would be crying blue murder, genocide and terrorism. If the shoe fits....British and Australian leaders who supported the invasion, for which there was no specific UN authorisation, must also share the responsibility for the dire predicament in which Iraq finds itself today.

What is the law? Is another Country legally allowed to invade another country without UN Sanctions? If someone is killed is that still murder? If so, why havn't Howard, Bush and Blair been dragged off to court?

If  foreign country came here and started blowing people up, would they be guilty of murder and terrorism? If we go and and blow up other people, is the PM and the gangs responsible for the invasion guilty of murder and terrorism?

What are the standards, where is the Law?

All that Howard achieved through the Petro invasion is sending the Country broke, so broke kids can no longer go to the doctor for free and we apparently have to sell the Mint to the US. Is he a criminal for his unsanctioned actions? Is Howard a first class terrorist? 

We r now a major terrorists target by becoming the terrorist.



Zing,

If Australia is separate from the UK, why do we have a UK born PM who was trained/brainwashed in the UK all expenses paid? How much investment does the UK imperialist empire have in Australia and Australian listed companies? Do these imperial corporations also have influence in the ALPLNP through the use of election donations/legalised bribes and scholarships for the ruling elite and their kids?

Why does the UK through the GG (The Queens rep in Australia) have the power to dismiss a democratically elected MP as PM?

If this is not the epitome of foreign ownership of a nation, i do not know what is.

This is the land of the Great Southern Quarry, that is why the UK invaded Australia and classed the original inhabitants as sub human and conquered in the name of Terra Nullius, knowing full well they where human. All they had to do after that is start calling them 'Abandoned Originals' or 'Aboriginal' for short to confirm that they have abandoned the land and had no legal rights at all. Invasion complete.Zing,

'the right of conquest'. Wow, thats deep. Amazing imperialist spirit. Tell me... has anything changed since then?

Have the ALPLNP who are working on behalf of the Crown, Roman Empire and US have 'the right of conquest' over us as well? Sure looks like it my imperialist conquistador friend.

It is that mentality at the heart of every war and every killing. I won't even bother with the rest of your propaganda.The Crown and the Australian Government have got a neat little jig going on, very similar in nature to the State-Fed Jig where by no one actually has to take responsibility for anything, they can point the finger at each other for whatever they want. This creates a convenient black hole for any issues that are not going to be dealt with, which are plentiful.

On the one hand the Queen is in complete control of the direction of the government through the chief head kicker the GG. After the passing of the Australia Act, Keatings ambitions plan to sell Australia on the US Stocky, the Queen had to relinquish administrate controls essentially. So now the crown can say it has nothing to do with us, they signed over responsibility and liability back in 86. Whoever bought the stock owns Australia. We are under the jurisdiction of the US corporate regulator.

The City of London Corporations however still own a majority of Australia's real estate and companies which finance the ALPLNP Corporations. As such, most decisions the government of Australia make are for the benefit of foreign countries and businesses.Folly and greed may not be in the National interest, however the National Interest is the intellectual property of the ALPLNP. No one else has possession of the National Interest or is able to influence the ALPLNP except their business donors.

The National Interest has become the exclusive domain of the ruling elite and those that pay for there scholarships and election campaigns. It is no wonder the National Interest has become the chosen method for the ALPLNP to justify working against the Common Good of voters and tax payers. 

Our Democracy is under the complete control of the ALPLNP and we have entrusted the common good and the national interest to the 2 most corrupt corporations on the planet.

The ALPLNP represent the Commercial Interests of their business donors, not the National Interest or the Common Good. Get the gangs out of Parliament house ASAP, restore a Constitutional Democracy ASAP.



Yes,

Its becoming glaringly obvious to everyone what is going on. We saw under the last ALP gov even the unions abandoning the ALP government they where that bad, they turned into the LNP. A new leader will not change the leopards spots. They where corrupt as all hell then and actively working against the public interest and they will again, the day they are back in control of the public interest. 

Its just that any gang in 'opposition' (how ludicrous) seems better than the one in government. Once they get into government the gangs just represent the corporations.When they are rejected by the public they start the grass roots propaganda again only to drop it all once their gang is in control.

If you own both gangs, you can't loose an election. If u have paid for the ruling elites scholarships and foreign brainwashing and those of there kids, then u have a certain degree off influence within parliament and exert considerable influence over the common good and destroying the common good for corporate gain.

Shame its taking so long for people to work out. The Environment and Economy will be gone by then. All public assetss will hve been sold off to the ALPLNP corporate donors and our military will have been used to invade anyone non NWO order country's natural resources and reserve bank.Dove,

To understand the dilemma of the cartels in parliament, one has to first consider that these are 2 financially dependent and corrupt corporations with a monopoly on power and a monopoly of the perceived public interest. The other point to notice is that the ALPLNPGr's all take money from the corporations/empires to do there dirty work.

The basis underlying these investments is, if we own influence in both gangs (through all expenses paid foreign scholarships of the ruling elite and shower them with consistent election donations), you never loose an election. This is the case of Australia, we r run by various foreign empires, not run in the public interest. 

To control the public Interests you need to have the monopoly of bums on seats in every parliament. Between the ALPLNP and Gr's, the monopoly is complete. We got to stop the gangs and corporations running the public interest.

To put the matter into perspective the ALPLNP change the Constitution every year at COAG without a s80 Referendum, that is how lost our democracy and nation are. If u don't believe it go and read the original Constitution + successful referendums then the ALPLNP authored Constitution.CJB,

'just vote for a company" to run the show. 

We do, they are the ALP and the LNP corporations, when they are financed by the same corporations and empires they act in a monopoly as the ALPLNP dictatorship. The only difference between them is the name and there ABN's.

They are both financially dependent and systemically corrupt. The ALPNP corporations interests becomes the National Interest and supersedes the Public Interest. Thats what happens when the corporations change a democracy into a monocracy.The real corporate agenda is the control of the central bank, control of the military, ownership of all public assets (food, water, electricity, sewage, water, ports, rails roads, mint, central bank, parliament, politicians). The massive contracts the corporations are going after are lending our government money or more specifically credit. 

Foreign governments and foreign corporations can lend money to our government in the form of credit which does not actually even exists. The government/taxpayers pay back this credit or non existent money back with interest. These businesses are the ones that pay for all expenses paid foreign scholarships/brainwashing (Abbot, Hawke, Keating etc) and election slush funds/propaganda money.

The debt the ALP make is used by there mates in the LNP to justify selling off everything to the corporations. Its a very clever 2 card rick, one gang gets you in to debt by sending money overseas/wasting it so that the other can sell all our assets off.

Between the 2 of the gangs, they can create any situation to justify fulfilling the corporate agenda. If u own both the gangs u never loose an election, so it does not matter who wins.

Zing,

One upon a time, people use to pay taxes for the creation of the essential public services and in the National Good. Not any more. The ALPLNP corporations are slowly selling all this public property over to the corporations because they love buying monopolies for essential services.

What the ALPLNP corporations are also doing is paying for most of the commercially built and owned toll ways. The gov finances most of them and then they end up going bankrupt because its all pie in the sky projections. The corporations are using the ALPLNP corporations to subsidise the big end of town as thats whom pays the election propaganda bills.

All tax payers get now is an Attack Force and Police State as part of our tax, the rest of our taxes are sent overseas or gobbled up in the overweight and corrupt bureaucracy.

Virgil,

I wish everyone in Australia knew how much influence the corporations have over the Common Good and the ALPLNP Cartel. We all know they are the 2 most corrupt organisations on earth and we put them in charge of the Cheque Books, Law books and Military. Woops.

There goes Democracy, now we have a corporate dictatorship through the ALPLNPUPGr's show. We can kiss good buy to the common good and national interest and we have the ALPLNP cartel voters to thank for centralising power to the corrupt cartels.'drew up a constitutional amendment to turn his idea into practice'

The ALPLNP already change the Constitution every year at COAG without a referendum, with the LNP corporations stranglegrip on power across the fed and states, it is only a matter of time before the LNP changes the constitution to suit themselves, they're power structure and there donors financial interests.

The division between the States and Federal Government is the wastepaper bin or the black hole, whereby anything that that either side does not want to take responsibility gets thrown into the void never to be seen again. If you dont know how it operates check out the GLORICIDE precedence that will will thousands of people illegally without a permit but actively encouraged by the ALPLNP.

This is how the ALPLNP corporations operate, they do not represent the national interest or the public interest, they all take bribes from foreign countries and multinationals to sell us off.

We would be better off elected the State government all together they are all systemically corrupt under the control of the ALPLNP. We should just have one government run by the people and one signle form of taxation, niot thousands of different taxes, like it says under the Constitution. At least that way we would know how much we actually pay in tax and what the actual costs of the ALPLNP government are.

James we are not too far off. 

As the ALPLNP all take money off the same corporations to fulfill the same corporate foreign agenda, one could draw the conclusion that we already are under a dictatorship, we just don't all know it yet. 

We are run by the 2 most corrupt corporations in Australia, according to ICAC. We have lost control of the spaceship.cangaiman,

Same same...joly good old chap.

More and more people are waking up to the scam everyday and it will only be a matter of time before a Constitutional Democracy can be properly restored.

They have left a trail of destruction that when it comes into light, the people will walk away from the parties on mass. The fact that not many people understand the ALPLNP corporations change our Constitution every year without a referendum, will be enough to cause a revolution of ideas to finally kill off MP's not voting for their constituents but selling their vote to their party in return for election funding and endorsements. 

This is the crux of all evil and the mechanism by which money bought out democracies all over the worldNicho,

Right on. Thats what the banks use to do.

Now whats happened they pay the ALPLNP to underwrite their excessive problem gambling onto tax players. A truly bastard act on a multinational controlled cartel could conceive. 

If you look, the 4 main shareholders of the big Aussie 4 banks are all the same 4 US investment houses. These banks are mostly owned by the NWO and the people have been forced to guarantee their gambling losses by the ALPLNP Corporations.

Thats why the NWO corporations pay ALPLNPGr's kids overseas scholarships and pay the ALPLNPGr's election propaganda machine. Its a great investment for them. As the overseas banking mafia own the main gangs, they never loose an election, thats a nice set up.

Banks use to be just banks that managed other peoples money then they turned into corporate problem gamblers to control the system of credit and growth/bubbles.The ALPLNP do not want to change Negative gearing, its just the thoughts of the journalist. Negative gearing is causing more inequality, increased house prices locking out 1st home buyers, and profiting the wealthy.

The ALPLNP corporations and there paid up members make a killing off Negative gearing to avoid taxation so its not going to change any time soon, no matter how many problems it causes.

Gbe, if you havn't realised the ALP LNP corporations are the same except for a name and marketing plans. They are all bought out by the same foreign interests. As long as you stay in the divide and conquer mentality/reality that has been created for us by the powers that be, you will miss the point. Look beyond the 2 gangs and they are the same. Democracy has been bought out, all we have is a choice between poo flavored chocolate and chocolate flavored poo, both options are rather unsavory an take a lot of advertising dollars to get us to consume.John,

A question for you. If the ALP wanted to fix Negative Gearing, how many years have they had in parliament to do it?

Perhaps you do not understand the big picture. The ALP and LNP are exactly the same except by name. They are both their to centralise power to the corporations. Their marketing plan and historical base however are different than the LNP's. Remember back when the ALP where in, even the unions had abandoned them in the States and Federal because they were such sell outs.

The ALP when in power are exactly the same as the LNP. When they are in opposition they return to there roots powerbase to gather momentum again and as soon as they get back in they abandon them altogether and pick up the Governments NWO agenda.

The ALP and LNP are the same when they are in government, they only serve the NWO corporate agenda. They change the Constitution every year at COAG without a s80 Referendum and it was Hawke and Keating (Foreign paid scholarship/brainwashing) that sold Australia on the US Stocky back in 86. 

The easiest way to control a democracy is form gangs and put a massive financial cost on entering parliament. If you own bath gangs, you never loose an election. Sad but true!Its just a big game. 

The ALP and LNP Corporations are both owned by the same financial interests, they work for the same foreign corporate agenda. Thats why politics is dying under the weight of its own corruption. The ALPLNP control Australia and these are the most corrupt corporations in Australia, as we have seen in ICAC there are no morals in parliament house, just commercial interests.

It is no wonder we are going down the gurgler with record foreign debt repayments to the NWO Banksters. To buy up the ALPLNP agenda is easy, you just have donate/bribes them enough and they will dance to any tune you like, it is that simple. If Murdock tells abbot to jump, you can guarantee the LNP will all jump right the way across Australia.

We've been overrun by the ALPLNP corporate foreign agenda by allowing gangs to operate in parliament that are all for sale to the highest bidder.Damon,

perhaps you don't bother reading the fine print on the vaccinations. You are not meant to get a flue shot every year due to accumulative effects of mercury. The silly thing is the flue shot is for 1 or 2 strains of flue but every season there are thousands of different strains.

Look at the whooping cough vaccine it is 96% ineffective but the pro vaccination sheep still say we depend on it. What rubbish, their are thousands of strains of whooping cough and the vaccine again immunizes against 1 or 2 strains. Thats why the gov stopped funding it, because it was next to useless. However the right have their blinkers on constantly and do not have their own brains to think for themselves, they just believe everything the ALPLNP and Murdoch/Packer tell them.

All you do by taking these vaccines is make big pharma richer and built a range of heavy metals that deplete your immune system making you more susceptible to getting sick.

Big pharma pay the ALP LNP corporations election expenses and kids scholarships to keep paying for mass vaccinations, which of course is a very profitable investment for them. If you own both parties you never loose an election and they are both for sale.

"the best approach was always an ETS."

That is the hoax we have been sold by the ALPLNP, Murdock and Packer Corporations. If the price of petrol goes up does consumption go down over time? Bugger all. We use more petrol now as a nation than 5 years ago, probably more this year than even last year. Have massive petrol taxes worked, nope their are more cars on the road using more fuel than ever before.

What the ETS and CO2 tax was all about was raising taxes and making new trade-able commodities for banksters.

If the government was intent on regulating CO2, they can change the way they generate electricity. Thats what Laws do, they can regulate future investment.

Look what an CO2 tax has done, its encouraged Coal generators to fire back up and plans to build loads more of them. The bottom line is the ALPLNPPUP want to increase CO2 generation, not reduce it. They just want to make some extra taxes on the way, thats all.

Its a corporate hoax, we should of done something years ago regarding energy security and renewable but the ALPLNP are making too much money out of polluters through political donation and scholarships for their kids from these same multinationals. 

Thats why nothing has happened and the only answer the ALPLNPPUP are proposing is higher taxes and more CO2.Rusty,

You are right, the gov makes laws for everyone else except themselves. They are only allowed to make laws for themselves though, a little understood fact.

When the government removed lead from petrol they replaced it with something even more toxic and the petrol companies saved billions by reducing the quality of fuel, thats why it happened. 

When u r talking about 'using the EPA to clean up emissions/water/sewage', the ALPLNP are very good at regulating people, the government is good at getting the public to do what it wants except its a different story with corporate political donors. You can kill thousands of Australians with not tested toxic herbicides if you pay off the ALPLNP, but if a person was going to do it, they'd be in jail. Its a government of deceit, they make themselves look tough cracking down on people and small issues while what they are secretly doing behind the scenes is allowing the corporations to absolutely destroy the place on the condition they finance the ALPLNP brainwashing campaigns.

Rodf,

'it would make far more sense for the government to be directing the CSIRO to research ways of improving farming techniques', sounds good in theory but we just ruined about every single aquifer in the country. 

The ALPLNP made a killing out of it, but farming is dead in Australia, the soil is being poisoned and the water is toxic. Have you seen the Condamine river bubbling for over 20km or seen the outback when its in flood? The whole place is bubbling methane and benzene's and salt is being dumped into rivers and dams all over the country due to CSG.

We are heading into a very different and polluted future and we can thank the ALPLNP for it and all voters who keep voting in corporations to run the government.Winston,

There have been new Coal fired power investments under the CO2 Tax, the Queensland government (the most corrupt government in the country) is the king of the castle in that respect. They just turned one on last week.

As for "using more petrol now than 5 years ago, accurate or not, relevant or not, is a pointless basis for making a conclusion about the effectiveness of taxes",  it is true and sums up the problem....the government (ALPLNPPUP) does not want to limit CO2 output it makes too much money for them, thats why its upping taxes and reducing law and planning. 

"Tell me: what would the consumption have been like today without the tax." If the government had used its investments (gifts) to the car manufactures to switch from petrol to electricity, then we would be using no fuel today. That would of been too smart wouldn't it, the ALPLNPPUP would rather raise taxes and through money at multinationals to keep polluting. 

Thats why the countries manufacturing is dead, the government has Free Trade Agreements to have all manufacturing done overseas so we can focus on being big miner and making other countries rich and make out environment suffer. Thats what the NWO pay the ALPLNP to do. 

Its simple. Laws work, taxes make the governments and its financial mafia donors very rich and facilitate/legalise CO2 production. 
Ben,

"I back myself, and the Australian public, to decide where the truth lies in any set of circumstances. You clearly do not have that same faith."


Its called experience. A crook in a suit who works for multinationals who has the best dodgy lawyers money can buy will always beat the average punter. Try selling your argument to all those people that lost everything, its just nonsense propaganda rubbish typical of an LNP stooge and a lawyer.

The LNP is all about deregulating corporations and over-regulating the public, thats what political donations buys hey. As you know, the ALPLNP will write you your own piece of legislation for under $100k donation/legalised bribe. 

No one would ever vote the LNP in if they did not have them money for mass advertising, propaganda and brainwashing. Thats the truth.

Get the gangs out of parliament house and restore the public interest through a constitutional democracy.Its good the the people to realise what the LNP corporate agenda is all about. This is the danger of giving absolute control to one person and one gang. 

Get rid of the gangs and restore a constitutional democracy. Get rid of preferences, get rid of corporate donations, get the financial NWO mafia out of parliament house ASAP. 

The foreign capitalist/financial mafia have bought up 100% control of the ALPLNPGr's.Ben,

Was it legal for Australia to use AusAid money to buy the Timorese Parliament? Would it be legal for Timor to do that in Australia?

Was it legal to go to war in Iraq and Afghanistan without UN Sanctions and does that amount to murder or mass murder? Would it be legal for China to do the same thing to Australia

Was it legal to bug the phones of the Indonesian government and the presidents wife? Would it be legal for Indonesia to do that here?

Was it legal for the US to buy Germany's Chancellors phone? Would it be illegal if it was the other way around?

How many more examples do u want?

Its hard to admit the ALPLNP government a corrupt bunch of hacks working for foreign money and foreign interest, but thats what they are paid to do by their business donors.
Ben,

Thats a typical lawyers answer. This is how our supposedly intelligence service operate, in violation of our laws and the countries they operate in laws.

Any example put to you would be labeled the same thing by you so there is no point engaging with the ignorant, i know your full of it, you know your full of it and everyone else knows what your party/gang is up to and its not pretty.

Truth hurts.Joe,

So what you are saying is the NSA and ASIO are even worse than East Germany Stasi?

Yep, that about sums it up. Amazing how a democracy can be so quickly overthrown and bought out by foreign government and commercial interest. 

Who runs Australia again? Who owns Australia? Why was it sold on the US Stocky and put under the jurisdiction of the US Corporate Regulator?

Hell, even the Geneva Convention means nothing to the US anymore, its pretty much open slather lawlessness.Australian law only has jurisdiction in Australia and does not legalise breaking laws in other countries. 

Our public servants are acting illegally overseas.  To say its legal to break the law overseas because of an Australian act of parliament is saying its legal for foreigners to come here and break our laws, which is of course a furfy. 

Is it legal for the US to come here and torture people because they reckon they're public servants are above the Geneva Convention even though the US has similar laws that allow its public servants to torture and kill foreigners?

That is what ALPLNP Corporations would want us all to believe but unfortunately its all crap. ASIO have a lot to answer for as do the ALPLNP that allow them to make us terrorist targets due to our lawlessness and recklessness overseas.

The whole bureaucracy is corrupt as all hell from the bottom to the top and inside out, from local councils state governments and the Federal Government. Its people/organisation like you that facilitate it all and claim that acting illegally is all ok if you work for the government. The people like snowden and assange come along and expose it all and they are labelled the criminals not the bureaucrats that have been killing everyone.

The first 2 questions are right on topic, its just that they cannot be justified. I've done my homework, perhaps you should do your homework on overseas laws as when you are operating there you operate under their jurisdiction, don't forget that next time.Joe,

So did the US break the rules by holding and torturing Australians at Guantanamo and elsewhere? Does that mean than no American is covered by the Geneva Convention?

By your definition,  if signatory breaks the rules then the rules are off, that means the US broke the rules and such are not privy to protection any more. You can't justify the US torturing people and not expect others to torture Americans under the same conventions, not that i am into torture. I'm just saying if the US are not acting lawfully no one else has to either, thats the problems the US has created for itself, no one has created it except the President of the US.

Its one thing to be a Journalist working for the CIA and its another thing to be a journalist working for the people. The US will always try and get its way, no matter what laws have to be broken. 

The Geneva Convention does not even apply to the US they reckon, as we have witnessed over many years. They consider themselves to be above the law in every possible way.

If you've got enough nukes and military bases on every continent, then not to many people argue with you and disposing of people is not hard if you work for the NWO government's. As we have seen everything they do is legal isn't it as the President or our PM have never been sent to jail, therefor everything they have ever done is legal if you take their word for it.Joe,

Commercial Journalism is about selling advertising space, real journalism is about expressing information without fear or favor, a lot like our pubic service used to do. Now they are just as corupt s the ALPLNP Corporations."unlawful intelligence activities of the US and Australia, but George Brandis wants to make sure it's only whistleblowers like him that face punishment"

How surprising from the LNP, its punish the guys that inform the authorities the governments are acting illegally and let the pollies and corrupt bureaucrats off the hook.

It will be the whistle-blowers that face execution, not the murders. How fitting for a government that does not act in the public interest in any regard. This is just a sign of time and the writing on the wall for the future.

This is the LNP for you, this is what they are and what they will always be. I can't believe people still vote for them. Lets ban voting above the line and see how many of these stooges make it back into parliament.

Under the ALPLNP you dont even need to be elected to parliament any more, you can come straight from overseas and walk right on in if you pay off the right gang bosses. 

The whole place has gone mad.
Nope, it will never happen. There would be no one left in parliament and it would be the end of the ALP and LNP who have been sucking at the same teat for so long they think they are above the law. 

Funny that we keep voting the same corrupt mob of gangsters into parliament. Its only illegal after a 10 year court case and numerous appeals, until then there are no laws broken apparently.

I think the ALP and LNP both want to shut down ICAC if they haven't already. ICAC have certainly exposed systemic termites in the gangs which makes the whole system look as corrupt as it actually is. 

In Queensland there is not even a watchdog of corrupt politicians, let alone an ICAC. The CMC only investigated about 0.3% of cases refereed to it. To make the stats look better the gov has now turned the corruption watchdog into doing the public police's job to ignore as many complaints against ALPLNP politicians as possible.

What is left are ALPLNP politicians with grins from ear to ear and big fat wallets.Din,

Put the situation in reverse. Would it be legal for the Timorese government to bug our parliament or the Indonesians to bug the PM's wifes phone and everyone else? 

Would it be legal for Iraq and Afghanistan to invade/liberate Australia from the ALPNP dictatorship that persecutes innocent whistle-blowers who are exposing crimes?

Just because very one knows ASIO and the CIA operate without seemingly any laws and beyond parliament, does not make it right or legal. It makes us a target for reprisals. Is it right for the USA to exclude itself from the Geneva Convention and have their own public servants paid by tax payers to torture people horrifically and illegally? 

Will Bush or Obama or Howard for that matter ever by prosecuted for torture and terrorism? Nope they operate above any law or any legal remedyNo thanks Joe, if you knew what i did you would never vote for any gang ever again. Gangs are the downfall of democracy.If  like gangs so much we should just have 3 or 4 seats in Parliament and safe all the money on perks and gold cards. Unfortunately for you, the Constitution says we have 226 seats in parliament and each member represents their constituents, not the gang boss.

Tell me where in the constitution power was centralised to the office of the PM or even authorised the position of a PM? How about voting above the line for gangs? Nope not there either , they were put in by the gangs for the gangs to centralise power to rip off the people.Damon,

A good diversion from the real elephant in the room. Why is PUP in parliament? Why are people pissed with the ALPLNPGr's stitch up? 

Whats a democracy, a choice between the lesser of two evils or 226 independent members who put their constituents interests before those of their boss?

We've been fooled into believing that the ALPLNP gangs work for the public interest. They don't, they work for political donations from foreign governments and foreign corporations. They have changed the constitution (and do so every year at COAG) to centralise power and disenfranchise the people.

Its a sell out.ConstGUy,

Thats what the constitution says but its not what the ALPLNP say. It gets changed every year by the ALPLNP at COAG, but the media is too concerned about former athletes sex lives to care.

It just goes to show how corrupt the ALPLNP are when everybody else knows the law except the ruling elite who are all paid off by the NWO. Thats what you get under a duo-dictatorship gangland system of politics, its not democratic at all. Its the centralisation of power to profit the corporations/political donors.Oaktree,

He wouldn't be in power unless he had buckets of money to compete with the ALPLNP corporations and people were over the ALPLNPGr's monopoly. 

As for the CO@ tax, regulating future development doesn't costs cent, raising taxes is what the gangs are all about, hence the CO2 tax/ETS which prescribe legalising pollution and the destruction of the earth.Oaktree,

I am sure thats not all we are going to be subsiding for clive. 

I am sure Abbot and Newman would dig up and get rid of the Great Barrier Reef altogether for Clive, in return for him supporting the status quo LNP NWO sell off.Ivan,

Much appreciated. Its a shame ordinary citizens are left to the job of the media and inform the people what the ALPLNP government is really up to. Its not much fun though, i have received about 10 threatening emails already this morning from US based corporations threatening legal action and its only 8am.

To top it off the gov cuts people health care cards etc if you speak out, so u cant afford to get tooth aches fixed or get antibiotics for infections or anything. This is the ALPLNP Australia. The greatest failure of democracy since the fall of Rome.

To properly understand the government and the ALPLNPGr'sPUP gangland system, you have to go right the way through the system to realize that every single government department whether it be local state or federal is corrupt as all hell and all totally pathetic. Thats why Pubic Servants get paid so well, so they sell out the public interests for the sake of getting rich.

Its a total failure in my opinion. If anyone disputes, i suggest looking at the growth in the rates of cancer since the introduction of 2,4-D i.e Synthetic Estrogen, in the food chain and then look at how the government is actually sponsoring people to get sick and suffer.  Cancer rates have tripled sine chemical companies have been contaminating the population and paying off the ALPLNP.

There's a lot of money in cancer and Big Pharma is making an absolute killing at tax payers expense. The ALPLNP government allows estrogen contamination of the population so that Chemical companies make money at the front while big pharma makes mega bucks at the back when people get hormone related cancers and require expensive/profitable estrogen blockers.

Ask the ALPLNPGrPUP about the illegal use of GLORICIDE/Agent Orange and how many people its killed and what they are doing about. The answer is nil, they are actually lying about it to encouraging people to use and die. 

Yep i "got"(done over) 'our system of government'.Prmkff,

On that note, the more 2,4-D you consume the higher your estrogen levels are and the more prone you are to Hormone Related Cancers. 

Thats why the cancer rate has tripled and is not going down. Its the government selling us out. The APVMA do not care how many people they cause the death off, supposedly no one has any 'Standing at Law' with them, even if they are responsible as regulators. they are complete bunch of stooges and are causing innocent people to suffer at the hands of there professional and deliberate negligence. Send them all to jail.

Thats the ALPLNPGr's for you though.Paul,

That is exactly the way it is. People are sick of the ALPLNP gang boom bust sell off.

Gangwarfare is how democracy has been taken over by the NWO, all we are left with is a choice between chocolate flavored poo or poo flavored chocolate, both rather distasteful and takes a lot of very expensive marketing, brainwashing and propaganda to sell those 2 products to the masses. 

But the people apparently love the stuff, maybe because thats all the food on the shelf, maybe its because they are stupid and dont have a garden and have to eat the crap these gangs serve up.

The NWO have made politics a very expensive business so that money will always rule politicians and the public interest. You have to have buckets of money to get into parliament and the only ones with money are the NWO and the odd dig it up burn it off Coal Miners.
Sandry,

Thats exactly what happens. Imagine if the government made a law regarding future developments of energy, amazing. Thats why they are going for a new tax/commodity, it facilitates more CO2 pollution. Regulation would be far too effective for the ALPLNPPUPGr's.

The government only makes laws to suit themselves, its not about the public interests unfortunately in parliament any more. The gang in charge has taken the biggest election bribes/donations from the NWO.Hellen.

Right on. Lets hope he stays away from the ALPLNP but you can be guaranteed of some horse trading. He may stay away from the ALPLNP financiers because he doesn't need them but he's right in with them on other issues on the conditions of of course he gets his way on various financial interests.

"Long may he be the "disruptive technology" in Australian politics." Lets hope he is only disrupting the ALPLNP game plan and not overly disrupting the people. He needs votes so will appeal to voters over donors which is good thing for our democracy. 

It just goes to show where the others are at doesn't it. This is all our democracy amounts to, 2 or three gangs taking money from the same big pot and overthowing demoracy.

Your right about the environment bit, he needs to do way more on environmental matters, increasing the price of carbon and passing it on to consumers is not enough and only facilitates more CO2 pollution, Regulations and laws governing development works a treat though except the ALPLNPPUP could not care less about pollution levels, skyrocketing cancer rates and foreign debt and public asset sell offs."The way forward surely is by reform of the existing parties and their functions and leadership."

Nice sentiment but the parties/gangs all work for the same interests and out of the same big pot of money. Change is necessary but isn't going to happen under there leadership. Too much is on the line for the corporations, they will do whatever it takes to quash a democratic rebellion. If it will take a war, they will do it.Its funny, we have come to accept that 2 or three gangs was the democratic way of doing things. We use to think that the ALP and LNP both had our best interests at heart and would let them work it out amongst themselves. We were told to choose between the lesser of 2 evils i.e eating chocolate flavored poo or poo flavored chocolate /ALP orLNP.

Then after 50 years and every government in that time failing in the eyes of the public and disclosures like ICAC we worked out that the ALP and LNP where actually working for the same commercial interests and all take money from foreigners to help pay for propaganda to brainwash the masses at election time.

We would be better off with a Constitutional Democracy with no Office of the PM, no Opposition, no voting above the line and no preferences. All these constructs where instituted by the gangs to centralise power and keep democracy out of parliament.

Democracy in parliament would definitely upset the powers that be. Thats pretty much sums it up, the powers that be i.e the big pot of NWO money is far more powerful a force in parliament that any voter or group of voters. The gang that attracts the most donations/bribes wins elections, thats how foreign capitalists have dominate the Public Interest. 

But if you own both gangs, you will never loose an election. Thats why Palmer has become a force, the ALPLNPGr's are all working for foreign interests and the public are sick of being sold off and lied to.

A 300% increase in cancer rates in 30 years since the introduction of 2,4-D into the food chain is testament to the fact that dollars speak louder than any voter. Gangs got us into this mess and no gang is going to get us out of this mess. 
Ted,

Thats Labours job to overspend. If they didn't overspend there would be no way the LNP could sell off all pubic assets to the financiers.

Its the old 2 card trick, pity some people can't see through the game. If u vote for the gangs you are part of the problem. Gangs are not democratic and are unconstitutional. Its how capitalist control a democracy. 

A democracy is meant to work in the pubic interest, a choice between dumb and dumber centralises power and policy for foreign governments and multinationals to exploit.

The ALP and just as bad as the LNP, they are part of the same problem. The Gr''s are there to capture anyone who walks away from the gangs thus centralising power even more. 

If you own the ALP and LNP you can't loose an election can you? Thats the way our democratic system has been worked by the financial mafia.Peter,

Right you are, you just haven't realised it yet. 

Tell me if the ALP LNP both take money from the same foreign corporations, does that country or corporation ever loose an election? Nope, thats why they donate and pay all expenses paid foreign scholarships and election donations/leglised bribes.

Also, is the Office of the PM mandated by the constitution, or voting above the line or how about the concept of an opposition or donations to buy influence? Nope, they are all designed to facilitate the Gang warfare financial mafia control of our democracy by centralising power.

If its a decent conspiracy there is no paper trail, just like Abbotts $100m search for MH370 with no Australian Military Radar information, only a dodgy US Sat picture of flotsam &amp; jetsam. Amazing how a plane can fly right over the top of the entire Australian Navy and Cocus and Christmas Island Advanced Radar Stations. Great way to blow $100m hey? We can find every little rickety wooden boat but not a 737 flying right over the top of us. Thats Abbot and the LNOP for you, although the ALPGr's would of done whatever the US wanted as well.

We are a nation of ignorant lambs thanks to total media control and the powers that be. Most people believe having a choice between the lesser of 2 evils is a democracy...wrong its still evil. Thats why the government has been crap since we helped pay for and justify all the US invasions since Vietnam.

A conspircy can be defined as an act that is not publically known or a level of ignorance amongst the sheep.

OUB

Buying a monopoly that taxpayers paid for is good business sense. Its also good business sense to donate/bribe $100k to the ALPLNP to get them to write you your own piece of legislation. 

Look at the TBTF banks, there gambling is now underwritten by taxpayers, they can go and gamble as much as they want are the taxpayer will pick up the tab if they loose, not the shareholders or the CEO. All our banks are majority owned by the same 4 US NWO investment houses.

Australian taxpayers have to underwrite the US NWO banksters, thats what you get if you pay for a few all expenses paid foreign scholarships and election campaigns. They bought MP Abbot up years ago and thats why his PMThis is how ridiculous the democratic electoral process is in Australia, we end up with situations like:

"Palmer's antics give Shorten time to plan his assault on the Government"

What this simple 1 liner is saying is MP Shorten although elected is not in government, in fact he wants to assault the government thus assault his constituents. That is just plain ludicrous but at the same time correct.

Why is that an elected MP is not considered part of the government when they where elected to lead the government?? Under the revamped electoral rules designed by the gangs for the gangs and illegal changes to the Constitution by the ALPLNP, an MP is not elected to manage the government, they are elected to be a bench warmer while the bigger wealthier gang ruins the place.

To be the wealthier gang and be the Government, it means taking election bribes from foreign governments and foreign corporations. This just sums up the quagmire of a capitalist democracy whereby money talks and voters walk.

The only problem is when voters walk they walk straight back into another trap, they walk straight into another party generally speaking, thus perpetuating the ignorance. U have got the 2 main groups and then you have got PUP and the Greens which are there to attract the fringe dwellers to another gang. Thus maintaining the gangland system of the financial mafia that has bought up every democracy in the Western World in the same way.

Its a  sell out.


JP its a tough one. 

We can stay with the 2 party system that are owned by the same NWO corporations or reinvent democracy. The other option is when the system collapses as surely it will, we will probably revert to a solitary dictatorship or military rule.

There is not much of a difference between a duo dictatorship of the ALPLNP and that of a solitary dictator. The only difference is at the moment we believe we are in a democracy but its really just a duo-dictatorship controlled by the NWO.

Its up to the people to decide if they are prepared to accept the ALPLNP duo-dictatorship that work for foreign governments and foreign multinationals. 

One thing is for sure, the people will always suffer under a gangland system controlled by wealthy foreign capitalist. Thats why they invest so much money in all expenses paid foreign scholorships and election donations/bribes. Our PM is a prime example.
"Oppositions have a mandate to"

Yes there mandate is to oppose anything the bigger gang says or does. Although elected to parliament, the opposition has become separate to the government for some strange reason.

Its gang warfare. This is not a democracy. If u own both the ALPLNP you never loose an election and thats the point, they both work for foreign interests and take money from foreign governments and multinationals to do their dirty work.

JP,

Its time to go back to the drawing board and try to work out for yourself what a democracy is. Is it a choice between 2 gangs or 226 independent members? If you vote for either gang you are part of the problem.

What is the point of having 2 gangs that run the show? One makes a law, 3 years later they law is changed and new one made for that term then another one and then another one. 

If you think its the senate that is destroying democracy, i am sorry but you could not be further from the truth. If you own both the ALP and LNP you can't loose an election. This is where its really at, everything else is just a smokescreen. The ALP and LNP may appear different but at the end of the day they are the same, more war and higher taxes. One gets us into debt to allow the other to sell off public assets to ALPLNP financiers. 

We have seen clearly in ICAC etc that the ALPLNP will take money off corporations to do their dirty work, even the same corporations to implement there laws, yep the corporations write the laws.

A choice between dumb and dumber is not democracy its how foreign capitalist control the democratic process by making politics dependent on big money and big propaganda. Thats why every government since the 60's have been crap, they do not work for the public interests, they work for foreign interests.Jo,

"It all went negative when he took over, to the detriment of Parliamentary standards. He is a failure of a PM." He is meant to be a failure in our eyes. He is being paid to not work in the public interest, he has some massive bills to pay back for his foreign scholarships etc. 

Its a 2 card trick, the ALP get us into debt so that the LNP can sell off the rest of our public assets to the guys that paid for his education.

Our democracy has been taken over by the corporate control of the ALPLNP monolith. All it takes is a bit of loose change for these foreign corporations and a few scholarships and its job done, they own the 2 gangs. Then they set up a 3rd gang to catch the fringe-dwellers, its a well orchestrated coop.Zing,

Who has run the government for the last 50 years or more, its the ALPLNP show. ICAC has proved beyond a shadow of a doubt that these corporations take money from corporations to do their dirty work. Parliament is under the control of foreign powers and the government prescribes the GG.

"If a member of Parliament is appointed as a Minister, their ministerial roles are separate and distinct from their role as a parliamentarian."

Nope, it would be good if it worked that way though. The minister is under the control of the gang boss. The minister does what there boss says, if they don't they are not endorsed and financed at the next election or dismissed outright. Its gang warfare, there is no elegance or intelligence, just stupid stooges on the take.

If u own both major parties u never loose an election, the capitalists worked that out long ago, thats why they invest in all experiences paid foreign brainwashing scholarships and election donations/bribes. Our PM is a prime example.WA,

"the 'government' is the party that carries the majority of the votes in the lower house." 

Is that your own interpretation of the rules is it? Is that the Constitutional way? Nope its the gangland way of doing business and controlling a country. Do you understand they all feed off the same foreign tit? Do u understand that the ALP LNP are both open for sale to the highest bidder and that the bidders also pay the education expenses of these ruling ALPLNP elite?


"What illegal changes to the constitution?? any changes to the constitution require at least 51% of the popular vote in at least 4 of the States, so the 'gangs' of the 'ALPLNP' cannot change the constitution alone!"

Didn't you know the ALPLNP can add anything they want to the constitution without a referendum? Haven't you read it? Go read the original and the all subsequent successful referendums. The ALPLNP change it every year at COAG and we are too stupid as a nation to do anything about it. Its now twice the sizer of what it was and all the changes the ALPLNP made are to centralise power and persecute the people.

"Anyone is entitled to run to be elected to the house of representatives or the senate. They need not be a member of any political party, however, groups of like minded people forming political parties does assist in creating a more stable system of government. The other option is to not have political parties at all and then let the governor general herd cats in parliament to get a decision made!"

It takes loads of money to get elected, that why the ALPLNP gangs have stayed in power for so long, they corrupted the system to make a buck and centralise power away from the people. Propaganda is expensive and the only ones that can afford it are the big parties who have taken the most bribes/donations. 

There is another option though, we could have 226 independent members that are answerable to the constituents not there gangland boss. Its the way it was but the foreign capitalist bought it out as they can't control it as well.Harquebus,

The ruling elite serve there paymasters, not the pubic. They do know how to serve the NWO who pay there bills. There is a difference. They can serve better than anyone, thats what their paid to do.The PUPLNP policy of facilitating polluters by having them pay a fraction of the price of their pollution is a stitch up.

The gov has been taxing fuel for years and have our fuel use decreased? Nope. It is sending people broke and the government is making billions though, which is the point of it.

The business financiers of the LNP want the LNP to allow corporations to do whatever the hell they want under the name of deregulation. So the LNP deregulate multinationals to have their way with the public interest while at the same time over-regulating voters. Its the same old story unfortunately.

If you can't afford the $100k to buy a pollie or a party, then you are left without representation. The only ones with representation in parliament are the donors of the ALPLNPPUP.  The only bodies that can readily afford it are companies.

Its a sad state of affairs and is the dilemma of capitalist democracy, the system has been bought out by commercial interests and only serves the financial interests of politicians and multinationals.

When gangs are in power and they are being paid off by corporate interest, public policy is put in the hands of foreign governments and foreign interests. Thats why no one believes anything that comes out any politicians mouth, to get there they had to take bribes/donations. There still are one or two good ones but they are not in government and never will be, even though they are in parliament. 

To get into government you have to be a part of the wealthiest gang. Until you sell out to the ALPLNP you are never in government as stupid as it sounds. That is not democracy, that is the corporate takeover of democracy. We need to ditch the gangs and voting above the line and restore the Constitution. The constitution is now under the complete control of the ALPLNP who change it every year at COAG.Thats the silly bit, you don't even need a referendum to change the constitution these days, the ALPLNP change it to suit themselves every year at COAG. 

History is an important part of understanding the present, so for people to understand what a democracy is they should go back to the original constitution + successful referendums to determine how the ALPLNP have changed the rules and invented their own ones to profit their corporate fundraising objectives.

The people are only allowed to choose between the gangs/financial mafia. We are not allowed our own government, its just a choice between dumb and dumber. Thats what a capitalist democracy amounts to, the gang with the most $'s for brainwashing/propaganda runs the military and cheque books. 

Foreign interests and foreign governments have complete control of our Government through the complete control of the ALPLNPGr's. Its so easy cheap and convenient, all you need is a docile smiler who plays the goofball for a few years while the sell off is completed.Maybe thats why they are trying to kill us all with GM, food contaminated with higher and higher levels of 2,4-D (synthetic Estrogen), dodgy vaccinations, poisoning the aquifers with GSG pollution, Chem Trails etc.

A good indication of hpw good the government is protecting the public interest is the cancer rate. Rates have increased 300% in 30 years and Australia has the 3rd highest rate of cancer in the world. The Federal regulators such as the APVMA are paid by the carcinogen corporations to allow there carcinogens to be a compulsory part of the food chain. 

Unfortunately the ALPLNP are paid off by the same scum bags as the APVMA, so there is no hope of reducing the rates of cancer and suffering in society under the leadership of the financially dependent ALPLNP Corporations. Its the same reason why the reef is dying and not regenerating and the same reason we are loosing our biodiversity. The governments of the democratic world have gone mad due to the corporate takeover of the public interest and democracy. The people are left with skyrocketing Cancer rates and enslavement.Billie,

Do u realise most commodities are GM'ed to facilitate higher use of pesticides such as 2,4-D/Synthetic Estrogen? Thats the bit they dont tell most people. They may say its going to carry more iron or Vit A, they just dont mention in the press release that its resistant to enhanced levels of Oestroen or Agent Orange as well. 

What do u think the scientific effects of dosing a whole population with higher and higher doses of Synthetic Estrogen would be? I would predict an increase in Cancer rates and low and behold our cancer rates have increased 300% in 30 years.

Anti science hey, i would call your attitude ignorant, uninformed and led by commercial interests.

Enjoy feeding your children GM Synthetic Estrogen laced food, see how long it takes them to develop a hormone related cancer (HRC), science would say they will. Also keep there vaccinations up, they need all the mercury they can get. Also don't forget the fluoride, although there is no deficiency disease associated with fluoride, we apparently need  it to make our bones weaken and teeth brittle to keep dentists in a job. Keep believing everything the ALPLNP say and you'll be right hey. They have your interests at heart not their financiers corporate interests?????????mcsblues,

It would be nice if you are right, however we have polluted our aquifers and soil beyond the level of human safety. The water is practically good for nothing, salinity is growing 10000000 times faster than permaculture.

We are on a very big slide into oblivion, we have ruined our farming industry to make us more dependent on unconscionable mining practices such as CSG etc. We are the Great Southern Quarry and under the ALPLNP will be until every last slave is dead.yep its sad alright, but what is even sadder is the pendulum will swing back and forth and the same old group of stooges will be back in, followed by this current bunch of stooges when people get sick of the ALP

Thats the really sad part, the gangs have taken over democracy. We need to remove them all from the political system and change the electoral laws that they have created to maintain and centralise power. There is no office of the PM in the Constitution and there is no such thing as voting above the line.

Once upon a time you even needed a referendum to change the constitution, not any more the ALPLNP change it every year at COAG. Its the sell out of the century."Those changes will be politically costly, particularly because they will, by definition, be working against the interests of those who currently enjoy the fruits of the existing paradigm."

Never a truer word written. I'm glad someone else has noticed. Now what next? Where to from here? How do you clean up politics and take the money out of it?

The gang that can attract enough advertising wins the election, so the one that sells out the most wins in a disastrous kind of way.

We need to redefine democracy is it a choice between 2 gangs or is it about an MP representing its constituents as opposed to their top dog who pays the bills?A happy little debunker,

If only life where that simple. I find it hilarious that anyone still has trust in a political corporation/gang that takes money from business to mass market to the brain-dead masses with pathetic dribblish propaganda every election.

Thats the point of the article, Senators represent the people more than government. The government no matter who is in power are there to repress the people and maintain corporate profits and foreign government agendas.

Why would the LNP help Australians when they work and take money from foreign interests? The only thing they do is sell off public assets and waste all our money on pathetic middle east invasions. They will say anything to get your vote but then its down to work for commercial fundraising.

The leader of the LNP gang is born and bred overseas and had an all expenses paid silver spoon scholarship/brainwashing in foreign institutions. The whole front bench have allegiances to the roman empire. It was the Roman empire that murdered Jesus and are presently involved in hiding evidence of pedophilia coverups by the pope all over the world.

Its a 2 card trick the ALP wastes the money so that the LNP come come in justify selling it all off. Anyone that believes the ALPLNP are too caught up in there marketing and propaganda; they do not represent Australians, they only claim to. 

We have got a 300% increases in cancer rates in 30 years under the ALPLNP, if u want proof of the ALPLNP destruction of Australia check out GLORICIDE, or check out the bubbling Condamine River or the dying Great Barrier Reef of the rates of Cancer. 

The ALPLNP have lost the plot and the people need to face up. Parties controlled by money will never help the pubic interest.

They all take money off corporations and have centralised power in a duo-dictatorship. Its a scam people.gbe,

It depends what way you look at it. I see it as the Gr's,PUP protecting the people from the LNP Government.

Its the loony lefties that want democracy and environmental care, its the fascist rightist that want a financial duo-dictarship under the domination of the ALPLNP Corporate Gangs. Its the fascist right ALPLNP that have watched cancer rates grow 300% in 30 years and still want Synthetic Estrogen (2,4-D)  used in the food supply and contaminate the water supply with Fluoride etc.

If it wasn't for the lefties, all the rightists would be dead by now, they would of destroyed themselves trying to make a quick unsustainable buck. We are only just coming into the big messes the ALPLNP righties have created, exponential migration, CSG, Uranium and radioactivity, dead reef etc, war debt and interest repayments.

Its a shame the Greens are just there to capture all the lefties for the ALPLNP gangs. Its a sell out.Thy do represent interests other than the ALPLNP which makes them a major threat. The last 100 years has been all about unions v's multinationals. 

Now the multinationals run the union movement as well through the financial control of ALP.

The ALP and LNP both work for foreign governments and foreign money. Its a financial coup, and who wins financial coup, the banks and banksters of course; hence the deregulation and no regulation.Isn't it amazing how a seemingly first world democracy can digress into a dictatorship so quick!

This is what happens when political parties rely on corporate money for propaganda to win elections and through media monopoly. If the LNP did not take money from foreign governments, favors from murdock and have all expenses paid foreign trained scholars, they would never win an election based on there policies.

Between the ALP and LNP, Australia has been in a foreign controlled dictatorship since we helped pay for Americas war on Vietnam in the 1960's. It was also the ALPNP who helped pay for Americas war on Iraq (2) and Afghanistan, so who really controls our parliament? 

Now we are broke and we can thank the ALPLNP Corporate Dictorship.There is a very good reason Newman is smiling more and saying less. Its like an annoying repetitive election add on TV, all smiles and loaded propaganda, like a computer game. 

It is the ultimate in arrogance, He has nothing positive to say or contribute, in fact he is the epitome of the classic LNPALP sell out. All he is done is fund toll roads for corporate mates, kill the Great Barrier Reef, install LNP stooges to the Supreme Court for 12 years of corrupt hell, sell public assets and increase profits from electricity and water and sewage, which of course is a ris in taxation across the board.

Look at the cancer rates in Queensland, 300% increase in 30 years. They mix up hormonal herbicides without a permit such as with GLORICIDE and use them absolutely anywhere and in all the food and of course ruining the drinking water and killing the Great Barrier Reef. The Condamine River is still bubbling away with methane and other gas byproducts. Salinity of farming land and desertification due to contaminated mine waters and aquifers is unregulated and unrestricted, the environment dept is just a website, same as the Ombudsman and CMC and police. Every department in Queensland should be disbanded, they are all pathetically corrupt and incompetent.

The ALP or LNP can't say anything about anything because all they have to offer is the same BS, its all bad. Whatever corporation that buys the election to form government in Queensland is always going to be bad, they do not represent the people at all, they represent corporate interests only. 

They could not care less about the cancer rates, its all smiles from Newman. Cancer what cancer, smile away Mr Newman, perhaps in NSW like Captain Bligh your former disgraced college.

Conservatives are not really conservative, Conservatives has gone full tilt and is now the new Right Wing. Who's the king of the right wing, its LNP stooges like Abbott and Newman.

Its funny that conservative now means, 2 x 13 year wars in the middle east, selling public assets to foreign corporations, paying for toll roads to be built and handed over to corporations to tax us, selling all public assets, fractional lending, bailing our multinational banks, foreign debt, perpetual debt repayments to the NWO, spending $100 million on dodgy search and rescues for US coverups without radar evidence.

As sure as day follows night the conservatives will all die of there self inflicted ignorance. I hope conservatives enjoy the fluoride in your water, the synthetic Estrogen (2,4-D) in your food , Genetically modified food, and the increasingly radioactive world, don't let it cause you cancer though. Cancer rates have increased 300%in 30 years thanks to 'conservative' governments sold out to foreign corporate interests that pay their propaganda bills.

Conservative Ignorance is bliss... until you've got cancer from believing everything the government says is good or you.
Its the John Howard we shall never have a GST conservative style. Worked for him for 10 years, do one thing and say another. Classic...tell the voters what they want to hear but pass laws that corporations want to see. 

Thats why corporations they pay the ALPLNP corporations fundraising isn't it? 100k donation to have a piece of legislation passed, isn't that the going rate? 

There is no ombudsman, senate or ICAC here so i wouldn't know. The corporations have free rein once the ALPLNP all take money from the same big pot.To be considered aliens in parliament says a lot about the system doesn't it?

Its the new gang in town and the gangland bosses are getting trigger happy and a bit anxious by the new threat of a higher state of democracy.

Imagine what would happen if all Senators and MP's were not in gangs? Imagine the democracy? The corporations would not be happy and would try and make the system harder to get into and centralise politics around donations to buy propaganda. 

Only the rich will survive it to parliament. U have to have more money than the ALPLNPGr gangs to compete, if you don't u r never actually in government even though you are in parliament apparently.
We are witnessing the effects and hangover from WW1 and UK foreign policy. Was this why the UK entered WW1 and invaded Palestine to take over there Messiahs home land? Was this the means to an end of the crusades?

Very similar to the situation they have orchestrated over most of the world including Africa, Iraq, Afghanistan, Australia from a first nations perspective. They have left a trail of destruction due to the contempt of imperialist greedy intentions, very similar to what is happening under the ALPLNP, especially under the UK born Gillard and Abbot show.

This is what happens when bullies with plenty of guns and money go and invade. It all comes down to money, greed and war.

Is there ever going to be a time where Israel accepts they are on Palestinian ground? Until then there will be always be war and tension. Its still in the denial and repressed guilt phase, which creates and perpetuates conflict.Terry,

When Jesus was a boy, the Romans had invaded most of Europe. The Roman Empire became the Roman Catholic Church and now a sovereign state. Our PM is a Roman Jesuit, the same as most of the front bench.

The Romans where fighting the jews and others. When they became a church they had to get other nations to fight their wars for them. Its quite likely that the Catholics invented Islam to hep control the Middle East and Unite the Arabs against a Roman Enemy to keep them out of Italy and the Vatican.

Wow, Arab expansion?? when you compare it to the European expansion, it pales in comparison. Western Governments have been trying to control the petro dollar and have created a lot of conflict in recent times. Its time we all knew why we have spent so much money on stupid wars which do not benefit australia. All they have done is send us broke and create further conflicts such as what is happening at the moment with tit for tat retaliation and on the edge of civil war.

Zing,

Captain Crook was sent here to invade a known group of people. Dutch etc had been coming here for a while and the Crown knew that it was illegal to invade a population of humans and structured the invasion exactly as you mentioned. A death by 100 cuts or half a dozen UK colonise over 150 years and 1 UK colony for another 100 years.

I ask you, if the Chinese or others did the same thing to the Land and people here now, would the same still stand true? Would the people here be fighting an illegal war? Would the invaders be considered terrorists and murders similar to Captain Crook?

Your argument is just imperialist propaganda dribble
Zing,

What makes you think there were no legal standards back in 1800's, international trade had been in action for hundreds if not thousands of years and common law and admiralty law where well established.

It was international law not to invade another community. You could inhabit vacant land i.e Terra nullius, but you cannot just go in and invade and start wars, it was illegal then just as its illegal now. 

Thats is why the UK sent over a biologist to claim that the people here where not human. Thats is why they where not allowed to vote for there dictatorship up until only recently.

Its the same thing with Iraq and Afghanistan, it was illegal. It doesn't matter what the mainstream press say, it was against international law, the government can't admit it was illegal so there propaganda is all about us accepting the expensive 13 yer wars.

There where no UN sanctions allowing Howards petro-invasions either, a fact so too few LNP members recognise. It has sent the country broke and now we have to sell everything we can to foreign corporations, the same corporations that finance the ALPLNP mafiosi.Pete,

your right, this is the fundamental missing link to a successful democracy.

If all executive power is handed to one party and i person, its not too dissimilar to a dictatorship. 

Decision making use to be based on every elected member having a say on policy, the centralised 2 party system has taken power away from the broader view and capitalised it to out compete a disorganised democracy.

The more power is shared the more a democracy this becomes. If it was shared where by every MP and senator had by compulasion had a conscious vote, the people would be far better off. 

Political donations and corporate control diminish off all resistance to a real democracy. Its time we had laws for politicians and gangs of politicians not to take money off corporations or vote in blocks.Zing,

I am glad you can see the difference between a socialist state and duo-dictatorship.

I want to understand your argument, you thin that its best to have 2 parties/gangs that are paid for by lobbiests? You want 2 gangs that vote in blocks depending on the whim of the leader? The one gang that can attract the most corporate dollars can spend up big on advertising, propaganda and brainwashing. Thats sounds like a dictatorship.

I offer to you an antithesis and you can tell me if its extreme, 226 independent members of Parliament that vote according to there constituents best interests. One where Lobby groups are not able to buy political influence.

The only single socialist state i'm interested in is the nation run by people, not corporations. Yes the ALP and LNP are corporations working for corporate interests and i am presuming you are one of them.

Its very cheap to buy up control of our military and public policy isn't it? You just have to buy up the 2 gangs and throw in some clever marketing and propaganda and smoke screens. Total media controls helps the system too doesn't it Zing.
Bizbob,

graazt, has a point. The ALPLNP are essentially the same they both believe in the same thing when it comes down to it, more war and higher taxes. There is only an illusion of difference between them, which is enough to keep people like you happy.

A choice between the lesser of two evils is still evil. That is all the ALPLNP monocracy will ever deliver. Its too easy to buy up both parties, which is why the constitution was drafted on the basis of having 226 independent members, not just 1 or 2.

To have both parties dance your tune takes takes a few all expenses paid foreign scholarships and some election bribes/donations. The government does snot work for the people, it works for the owners of the company and being that Australia was sold on the US Stocky, its not owned by Australians. 

The last thing we need is more public business, they are just being sold off to ALPLNP donors. Thats what they pay them for. Once upon a time essential services where undertaken by the public service as part of our tax, now corporations come in and buy them and have a monopoly over essential services. Its great for multinationals and foreign governments, but the tax payers who paid for the assets suffer.

Wake up




We accept more migrants now than since captain crook.

The difference is they are rich northern hemisphere migrants now, not poor refugees. When howard was getting on soap box clamping down on refugees he opened the flood gates for rich migrants escaping a radioactive northern hemisphere.. 

To make some money out of unis, Howard wanted Australians to stop taking uni places and give them over to foreigners. Its all just propaganda.What does the cash reserve rate mean anyway. Who's mortgage is at RBA rates?

The Cash rate would have to go to about -4% for mortgages to be zero.

Its funny when the government outsources cash rate to the RBA to squeeze home owners to the tilt, while at the same time creates hyperinflation through fractional lending and corporate pork-barreling to profit the banks and dilute the value of our actual currency.

Its a squeeze families and home owners while at the same time creating the most profitable rip off banks in the world. What US corporations own most of the TBTF aussie banks? The same 4 US NWO investment houses. 

Thats why the ALPLNP are using citizens money to guarantee the risky gambling the banks/banksters have been up to.  The banks have been siphoning all the money back to Goldman Sachs etc dodgy investment bubbles and have lost the lot. Now its time for the tax payer to finance the banks losses as they are all trading insolvent. 

No wonder the banks and banksters bribe the ALPLNP with massive political donations and foreign all expenses paid educations/brainwashing. Cheapest insurance policy on the planet.

gd,

"We can't fight the Fed but we can certainly kick then in the nuts." Thats wishful thinking. The US would know about it even before we knew about it. Our ALPLNP politicians tell the US everything before it happens, months before it happens. Being a traitor, even if your an MP does not even hit the media these days, its just part of the job.

We are printing money on zero value as well, this all happened thanks to fractional lending which means the big 4 banks are all trading insolvent, but who cares its been this way for years, it doesn't hit the media and journalists could not care less anymore.

We are for sale on the US Stocky anyway, so when it goes down we go down. We do not own Australia anymore, nor do we have a right to manage it democratically, it is in the hands of the ALPLNP Corporations and they work for foreigners.Yank,

The Great Depression was entirely orchestrated by US and NWO corporations to make the case for selling off the US fed to a couple of wealthy families. What was sold exactly, was it the license to print US money and created credit out of thin air to sell to the government?

To get out of complete government bankruptcy created by the NWO politicians, the US Gov had to sell the Central Bank. Is it any surprise Abbot and the LNP want to flog the Mint to the same group of banksters?

We are going into a massive great depression and u watch, the only ones with money at the end of it with be the NWO corporations and the ALPLNP and they will do exactly the same as what they did after every depression, come in and buy up everything they can for cheap and then flog it off in overinflated bubbles. Then sit back and wait for the next crash and do the same thing all over again.Fedup,

Wish you were right, the biggest most corrupt lawyers end up in the ALPLNP and become our parliamentarians. As for the rest of them, they are all in it for themselves. The world would be a better place if everyone of them were banished from earth.right u r,

A crash/depression is like a big vacuum cleaner that comes in and suck up all the assets up the chain.

If people can't pay their mortgages, the banks come in and take ownership of the asset with interest. The Banks are all majority owed by the same 4 US banks. All the money gets sucked straight up out of the system and its gone for good.

The money sucked out helps pay for many scholarship for the ruling elite and many election donations, that is all they invest there money on. The corporations get the government to spend the money doing the rest of their dirty work i.e petrowars etcAnother Global recession, does that mean another war or wars? This is what happened when Bush got in, the world was going into recession back then and Bush/Howard Blare needed some different media headlines and the economy needed a quick does of corporate sugar to stack the stats.

Now that the US war machine has sent the US broke and Australian government broke, who's going to pay for the next dodgy petro-invasions?

The US and Australian economies are both dead in the water. We can only did so many holes in the ground to stack the stats and eventually all mine work will be automated so the only money coming out of the quarries is going to ALPLNP bribes/donations.

The ALPLNP government has been trying to destroy all other forms of economic expansion like farming and tourism in pursuit of corporate donations from miners and multinationals. The US and Australian government have to pay a large percentage of their respective incomes straight to the NWO banksters, so that means higher taxes, less ervices and more public asset fire sales.

Don't blame me, blame the ALPLNP and the ignorant voters that keep installing these 2 corporations that have cornered the country and changed the electoral system to keep there strangle-grip on power and greed.

Its only a matter of time before it falls flat on its face.All we are ever going to hear about is the ALPLNP blaming each other for the mess when in actual fact they are both the same and both to blame.I think,

War makes big bucks and knows no bounds of morality. Look how easy it is to make a case for war. The only thing you need to do it is the media. All the facts are irrelevant, if u can get the media to report something on fabricated evidence and it creates enough outrage such as 9/11, then its a piece of cake.

War is good for a countries GDP and is enough to throw the books for while at least. Growth in GDP is always good right? Eventually the people wake up to it the country being sent broke, but by then its too late. 

The US, Australia and the rest of the NWO countries are in that predicament right now, its like waking up from a big night with the reality of a massive hangover.

The global economy is suffering a massive hangover after 2 x 13 year petro-wars and working out what to do next. There is not much left to sell off, we all ready sold the country on the US Stocky, we have already privitised and sold off nearly everything and there is nothing left to sell off. 

The Banksters are already skimming the till straight off the top of government tax collections to the tune of about 25% in perpetuity. 

The age of entitlement is over its now the age of NWO debt repayments. What money used to be spend on the most vulnerable and needy in the community is going straight overseas and we can thank both the ALP and LNP for this. 

Thats what you get with a foreign born PM, whose education was paid for by foreigners and whose election campaigns have all been paid for by foreigners and is too gutless to appear in public or on the ABC.If there is money in it fopr ALPLNP donors, the laws will change real quick. A whole new financial market will be created overseen by Goldman sachs, Gore n Co.

It won't effect laws governing the digging up of coal or the construction of new CO2 powerstations, but the banksters/miners can see a bubble coming to exploit.

We could implement laws and regulation over future spending on infrastructure and natural resources but, its not so lucratively bubbly.Imagine what would happen if voting blocks/gangs where not allowed to operate in parliament and every MP and Senator was answerable to their respective electorates?

Vested interests may be eliminated which would upset the corporations. Heavens forbid what would happen?? It might just be democracy.I reckon if every member was independent, we would start being happy with the government and its decision making because it would be free of vested interests and big money.

What is democracy, the ability to vote or the ability to be independently represented by a constitutional parliament?

The ALPLNP are in power and stay in power because they take the most amount of money from industry and foreign governments. Under a monopoly we can only expect more of the same vested interests and less public interest.

The whole of parliament has an obligation to the people beyond its obligation to their respective gangs. This is where a capitalist democracy goes wrong. 

Democracy would work 100 times better for the people if money was not used to centralise power up an elitist pyramid. This is why senators become unrepresentative swine, they start representing the party/corporate line. The big end of town want power centralised and disassociated from the pubic, which is what we are seeing clearly.Look how much contro the unions had over Gillard and Rudd, they had none. If u remember all the unions where leaving the ALP and looking to satart a new party. When the ALP are in Opposition, whatever that is, they side up with the unions, but when they get in power, they work for the same guys as the LNP, big business and foreigners.

The ALP do not represent Unions or workers and the LNP do not represent small business. Thats is just marketing and propaganda, that is what they want us to believe to try and pockbarrel us into voting for the monopoly.

We need to get rid of the gangs and have anti association laws like in (Nazi) Queensland, the land of the eternal dictator (no senate). Lock them up for 25 years for colluding, ALPLNP politicians need it more than the bikies. The ALPLNP are the 2 most corrupt crime gangs in the country and by far the most profitable.Ben,

Elections are not effective when its only the richest corporations that can compete. Thats the problem, the ALPLNP keep getting voted back in because they take the most money.

If they are both taking money from same big pot of corporate donations/bribes, it does not make government and parliament reliable in any sense of the word. This is what we are seeing. Its no surprise that the people do not believe anything the government says on just about anything.

The ALPLNP stranglehold has created a monopoly which is easily bought up by corporate donations. Elections are not effective when they are dependent on fundraising and gangs. This is how corporations have taken over the western world,its a well worn path of destruction. The pubic get sold out while the ALPLNP prosper.

"Senators are unrepresentative swill" Without a senate, we would all live in Queensland under a roman style storm trooper dictatorship.Ben, just found this quote, i thought you might like it:

"organized greed always defeats disorganized democracy." 

Its from an interesting article too by Matt Taibbi on Goldman Sachs.Scott,

Its amazing isn't it, its right under our noses and no one wants to look at it. Every Senator and MP should make a pledge to make every vote a conscious vote. It should be anyway, except this is how the parliamentary process is being abused.

Forget pledging to a religious publication, how about a pledge to the public to work for them and not for any vested interests and corporate donations.Dove,

It is a crime, the ALPLNP have changed the constitution without a referendum to ensure that there monopoly is above the law and stays a monopoly. They are financed by the same big pot of foreign corporate money.

The ALPLNP invented the Office of the PM and the concept of an opposition. This insures a monopoly and removes the power of a democracy back to a duo-dictatorship which is very easy top control with corporate donations.

Its a lot more than just human nature, its very organised and very well planned. Its all based on fear and greed.Yep, the Greens are just an iron on patch of green guilt, they do not represent the environment or voters, they r just one of the gang now and determined to just be a part of the ALPLNP gangland system.

They are lost in the wilderness unfortunately, especially under their leadership team. They do not represent the environment, they represent higher taxes, the same as the ALPLNP. 

If you own the 2 parties u don't loose election, if you own all three you can't loose an election and that is there role. To maintain the status quo.Who exactly are the adults in the room, have you not seen question time?

Would an adult cut down as many trees as they can, burn as much coal as they can, destroy the GBR as fast as they can, release as much herbicides as they can, cause as much cancer as they can, bail out majority foreign owned banks that have gambled away all there money back to the US?

The sad thing is, there are no adults in the room, its just big business pulling the strings of sold out stooges.1)Its not people that are the danger, its massive multinational corporations that pay of the ALPLNP to destroy the place. Do u think they care if they make a mess here? Does it matter of they destroy our geology and aquifers? Nope they can just skip town after a damages bill. They are excluded from environmental liability under their company constitution and Australian Law. How about companies like Monsanto etc that only banned half of Agent Orange (Synthetic Estrogen) that release product known to cause cancer and destroy the environment? They are not here to look after the place, they are here from the US to sell there carcinogens in our food supply. The ALPLNPGr's don't care either.

2) The government makes laws for other people not themselves, if u didn't know this then u have never had anything to do with it.The first thing the gov does when writing law is write in exclusions for themselves, look at the Privacy Act, APVMA act, Racial Discrimination act etc. The gov do not care about the law, if u don't believe go look at GLORICIDE. Hundreds if not thousands of people will die with this agent orange type product and the greens are two lazy and pathetic to bother putting it through the Senate, instead they pass questions off the public record under the desk to Barnaby to make it look like its a senate question.

3) What do u expect would happen to cancer by enforcing 2,4-D/Synthetic Estrogen use on our food supply? Have you ever heard of Hormone Related Cancers (HRC's)?? Your not the only one with there heads in the sand, the entire APVMA and ALPLNPGr's have had there heads in the sand for years. They only banned half of Agent Orange, the other half of it is used 100 times more now, than before. Its no wonder so many people are fighting cancers. Its the governments fault, that is the ALPLNPGr's MPs who are responsible as they all know it, yet are too lazy to act and are being paid not to act. This is reality, it is not at odds with reality at all, its just an inconvenient truth/mass murder. Ask the PM about GLORICIDE/2,4-D and the Cancer Epidemic, he could not care less. He's paid very well in election donations not to care.
The Other John, If you want to keep destroying the place, keep doing what you are doing and do not try and change a thing. Just be prepared for the wars over food, clean water and oil. Also be prepared for the rush of pacific island boat people, we've already got signed contracts to take climate refugees from the region. Don't whinge about it later, you have been warned.

Greenies argument is just how to better look after the place as opposed to the industrial alplnpgr model which is dig it up and sell it of to foreigners to get rich quick and make some political donations/bribes

Industrialists worked out long ago it is best to change to a democracy to a battle for corporate donations and industrialise politics. Its the best way to sell out the people. You've been had sunshine.Isn't that funny, to get rid of the age of entitlement (i.e living in poverty close to starvation and bankruptcy) we had to send the country broke.

It would be good if the age of entitlement was dished out in equal measure to politicians and bureaucrats that have been sending this country broke. All the public servants have done is ruin the environment for ever and cause a 300% increase in cancer in 30 years.

Industry groups such as the ALPLNP have created the debt to justify total environmental destruction and public asset sell off to foreign political donors. 

Its a sick system.Look at the cut backs, we can't send kids to the doctors at no cost anymore, that means we are broke. The gov is trying to cut costs because they are broke. They want to decrease serves and increase taxes to siphon more money overseas to the Banksters that run the ALPLNP, the same banksters that paid for all these rhodes scholars brainwashing and election campaigns etc

Fed Gov debt is about 70% of its income. If u add up all Government debt (Local State and Fed), our debt is massive beyond belief. These figures are never published, similar to the US and China, its the same story all over.

We will be broke for generations, thats the plan. We need to be broke to justify selling off pubic assets, thats why the ALP keep wasting money so that the LNP can come in and sell us off even further. Its a 2 card trick.

Look what is happening in the US, the fed gov has to 25% of all its income straight out the door to the privately owned US Fed, they will be broke for generations perhaps in perpetuity, we are being send down the same path by the same corporations.

Those are the facts.bonzon, is that all you have got, can't find one point to provide extra insight on. Its easy to use the popular world view to justify anything, the Romans did it when they crucified Jesus and thousands of others and nothing has changed since then.

The facts are massive debt to all levels of government, way more than the current budget when you add them all together.  The US gov has to spend 25% of its income to a privately owned bank in perpetuity, we r on the same path. When the last of the public assets are sold off then it will be mineral rights and citizens bank accounts, similar to what is happening overseas.This is just a long list of failures and the epitome of the ALPLNP corporations. It is no accident the reef is dying and not regenerating. It is no accident many of our rivers are now bubbling up methane for ever. Its no accident cancers have increased 300% in 30 years, its the ALPLNP agenda. This is why they are paid by industry groups. 

They have to be paid a lot to act against the public interests, they need the money for massive propaganda campaigns come election time. We've been sold outThey did help get the ball rolling except they have been trying to roll it uphill to stop change.

They could of acted to bring in regulatory change regarding what new powerstations where powered with. They chose not to regulate they chose to increase taxes and pay off polluters. The Greens are as much of scam as the ALPLNP.

"But if they don't agitate for what's truly necessary, as opposed to what's politically convenient, then who will?"

Who r these green groups we are looking to help us? Who do they work for? Has the green movement been taken over by industry groups by graft and money?

Who do the Greens really represent, Environmentalists? Nope THEY DO NOT. They r the closest we have to an environmental watchdog, but the truth is they where taken over long ago to ensure that the parties/gangs maintain full control over the democracy.

There policies are better than the ALPLNP however they are still representing foreign interests. They do not represent voters,if you think they still do research GLORICIDE and why they are refusing to put the matter through the Senate. Ask Barnaby what his response to GLORICIDE is a senate response not on the public record or an under the desk avoidance of mass murder allegations by him and the Greens?

Industry knew a while ago that they need to dominate the green groups to cancel out objection and to steer the environmental debate, which could significantly impact on their business models. Most environmental groups are dependent on the government for moneys, most others are dependent on industry groups and are completely sold out and just push certain agendas.

If u r looking for environmental groups to save the day....think again, thats the governments job and they dont have to do anything, law, morality and the public interest means nothing to them.Baz, that is a very well rehearsed line. So funny to hear people say 2,4-D/Synthetic Ostrogen is a safe part of the food chain. Whtat happens when peoples estrogen levels become contaminated by food contaminants?

Do u know what the difference is between 2,4-D and 2,4,5-T? It is 1 chlorine molecule. Is 2,4-D safer because it has one less Chlorine molecule? Nope. The truth is half of Agent Orange was banned and the other halfs use was pushed down our throats without any scientific or health data. It was a commercial decision to blame 2,4,5-T for the birth defects and cancer clusters and allow 2,4-D use to skyrocket. Thatys why we are in a cancer epidemic, particular HRC's. 

As for GLORICIDE, do u know what happens when you mix the 2 poisons? New synergistic chemicals are created such as the banned lethal 2,4,-D methyl esters etc. You need a APVMA permit to use these products on mass and the government could not care less, no matter how many people are killed by it.

What happens when you mix 2,4-D with chlorinated water i wonder? Or with other products that contain chlorine. 

"2,4 D in and of itself isn't a problem" its Synthetic Estrogen - Yes it is the problem and dumb ass scientists and politicians that keep trying to hide the facts from the public to make a quick buck on others misery. If its so safe, why has the APVMA not even get half way through its health effects study after 20 years?  The longest and most expensive time wasting study in history. If they release the report the Gov and companies will be sued for the next 100 years similar to asbestos!!

Welcome to Vietnam and get used to the birth defects and cancer epidemic. They are all predicted to rise and are predicted to rise further with more 2,4-D and GM contamination. 

If u think its safe go feed to to your kids or pregnant wife, then we'll see how safe it is. Until then save up and sell out for your medical bills, you will probably need the money when u get sick from eating the crap. Perhaps u can then afford to buy Estrogen blockers from the same companies, how convenient.





Baz,

My last comments where censored however to set the record straight, if u use herbicides Off Label under  a Federal Permit, then you need a permit. The gov does not have permit so are responsible for operating illegally causing deaths.

What do u think happens if you start feeding people 2,4-D/Synthetic Estrogen? Should the community expect HRC 's to rise in line with government abuse of carcinogens?

What happens when you mix those products, the Qld Ombdusman reckons you create 2,4-D methyl esters etc, which are also illegal and lethal. Yet the OQO ctill refuse to investigate the deaths and claims, typical bureaucrats.

No wonder all the trees are dying along the dunes and cancer rates have increased 300% in 30 years, the world is full of ignorant people and people over paid to harm other people and do nothing.What a solution, can we bury the nuclear waste in your back yard. Nope, its not safe, what do u mean its not safe.

How about a nuclear reactor in your back yard then and a set of anti terrorism weapons to protect it 24/7 for 50 years. Nope, don't like that idea either. 

Ohh well. May have to get solar instead or hydrogen etc.Right you are Luisa,

Unfortunately the Greens only represent themselves. If you own 2 parties through corporate financial dependance you won't loose an election, if you own all 3 then you can't loose.Andrew,

perhaps you have not experienced the Public Service. To get to the top you have to be a yes wo/man. W all know how whistle blowers are respected by the Bureaucracy, they are dismissed immediately and ostracised. 

The leader or top dog, does not get there by being a whistle blower, they get there by being complicit in covering up government crimes. Thats why the leaders are paid so well, way more than the PM, its to do the dirty work. Look at the APVMA for instance, while cancer rtes have gone up 300% in 30 years, the APVMA can't even complete 1 report on the safety of 2,4-D in the food chain.

Thats what we get in a capitalist monocrazy. The ALPLNP have had their noses in the trough for 100 years and they both have the same corporate donors that get them to dance to there beat and sell out the public for a few election bribes/legalised donations.Ben,

The ALP and LNP have known for a long time that the Banking system is on the precipitous of collapse due to foreign lending and corruption.

The LNP Coalition are not saying there will be an investigation on the mater specifically, just a round about review by the ex CEO of the main company in question .

I guess that beggars the question, if the ALPLNP have known about it for years, why the inertia and wait for a response from the government? 

It seems to be an important matter, the government is generously offering to bail out the mostly foreign owned corporations with public funds and civilian bank accounts. The banks invested our money in ponzi schemes and now they have collapsed, who pays?

Should we make the ALPLNP pay as they are responsible for allowing all this to continue for so long right under there noses? They are both being paid money to look the other way and pretend nothing is happening.

When both sides are bought out by the same corporate money to sell off the public, when does that become a dictatorship and against our National Security Interests?"Corporate crime &amp; white collar crime as well, as I think it is running riot in Australia"

Thats because it is. 

In Qld for instance 99% of all public service crime is not investigated by there corruption body. The 1% that is investigated are for political witch hunts. No Senate, no independent judiciary or anti-corruption agency. The Federal Government is just as bad.

Bureaucratic crime is a part of the job, look at how whistle blowers are treated, they are dismissed, bullied, ostracided and allegations ignored as much as possible. 

What has created this situation in every State and Territory? A lack of media Independence/monopoly, a lack of Political Will, a lack of independence?

The core of it all is having 2 gangs in control of the public service for a very long time. They both work for the same corporate donations and foreign governments. 

As long as gangs rule the parliament and money can buy influence, we can expect more of the same sell out of the public interest by the ruling elite.Right you r,

It seems to anyone with at least half a brain, that the ALPLNP corporations are the problem.

"We have many problems that can be fixed , it is merely a matter of radical and clever policy but that is not going to happen with this lot running the country."  The problem is acting in the public interest always seems to limit corporate profitability. 

Where corporations have controlled democracy is by making politics a capitalist gang warfare between easily controlled groups, the gang with the most money wins the election. Hence Capitalist always win democratic election. 

Money Talk, BS and voters walk.

We need to look way beyond ASIC and look at the 2 corporations that run the government.Mik,

That is with good reason, they do not represent there electorates, they represent their gangs and their corporate donors.

We all need to ask what is a real democracy and what does it look like? What does the constitution say about having 226 independent members?

This current system is just a capitalist monocrazy and a fraud. It has been re-designed to deliver corporate outcomes for election donors by the ALPLNP Corporations.Virgil and referenda are right.

The people of Australia have lost control of the democracy, it is that simple. Our Democracy is now in the hands of the ALPLNP Corporations. This is why the people are unhappy with politicians and the parliament in general.

If we value our democracy so much, why is that our sense of what a democracy is so underwhelming. Things will not get better under the ALPLNPGr'sPUP corporations. They are all there for special interests, nony of which represent Australian Public interest. They will never do anything real about corruption, political donations, the cancer epidemic or the political control of the constitution until the people stop voting for them.

The time of ALPLNP power is nearly over thankfully. They only attract 65% of the vote so another 15% of people awakening will mean there conglomeration and eventual obsolesces. People go for them at the moment on the basis of less lesser of 2 evils and for what they say, not what they do and all young people have seen what these gangs are like. When the older generation are passed, more and more people will vote these corporations out.

Once they are voted out, then they could all very well end up in jail, that is if the future independent parliament decide to investigate the results of all these political bribes. We r going to have to stop sending victimless criminals to jail to make way for the silver spoons ruling elite.
Bruce,

right on, we need to stop and compare a constitutional democracy against the present system. A system controlled by political gangs/corporations dependent on $'s is always going to be skewed and corrupt.

We may of had a democracy after federation for a couple of years, but the capitalist knew exactly how to restructure it in their favor, because they have done it the same all over the capitalist world. Money talks BS walks. The gang with the most loot wins and if you own both gangs, you can't loose.It pretty extreme in my opinion for the ALPLNP to both be open to foreign government bribes and multinational control. As soon as someone lets the cat out of the bag, its all of a sudden labeled extreme. No, its the ALPLNP that are extreme. 

What do you call making changes to the Constitution every year at COAG without a referendum?Thats a good point Trev,

If the ALP or LNP had to call our PUP on CoI, then they may have to prescribe the same blow torch to themselves. Thats would mean no one would ever be in parliament for a vote, which would be a good thing for the public interests, however make a mockery of an apparent democracy.

The whole notion of an Opposition and a PM is contrary to the Constitution anyway, its been redesigned by the ALPNP to deliver different outcomes to attract corporate donations/bribes, not to benefit the public interest. A small number of groups/gangsg are far easier to control than 226 independent members.

We can kiss democracy good bye thanks to the ALPLNPGrPUP corporations/gangs.
Having someone other than the traditional ALPLNP corporations in power is the power of democracy. Some people hate it. Others believe that our democracy is based on having 226 independent members of parliament that are thee to direct the public service in the public interest.

The public interest does not factor into a capitalist monocrazy where the gang with the most money for election brainwashing wins.Descend,

U r right. Clive is a part of this monocrazy now and he is their to represent his business interests, but at least they are Australian Business Interests as opposed to the ALPLNP who will take money off any corporation or foreign governments to sell out the public.

The ALPLNP do not work for Australians or Australia. If they did, perhaps our cancer rates would not have increased by 300% in 30 years, perhaps they would of banned all of Agent Orange and they would not of flogged Australia off on the US Stocky back in 86.

Its a sell out...thats the name of the game.Yang, you are right.

Its been months since this hit the media. It was a national disgrace on the ALPLNP Corporations that it happened in the first place. Its an absolute abomination that she is still locked up without charge. I wonder how long it would take a politician to be released without charge.

Abbot should stand down as PM over such a disgrace. What has he been doing? Who's interests does he represent. He is foreign born, foreign trained and acts for foreign interests. 

As this case demonstrates the last thing on his mind and the LNP's consciousness are Australians. What a disgrace. Throw them all out and lock them up and see how the silver spoons like it. Whats the bet they would not last 1 day.MP Abbots gang voted him to be the PM (whatever that is under the Constitution). He is the imposed leader of the public service. He is there to supposedly represent Australians, what has he been doing? Does he represent any Australian?

Is this how he protects the public interest, allowing people to be locked up indefinitely without charge. This is what the LNP has come to. U can get 25 years in jail in QLD under the LNP for being am member of an organisation, not because u have done anything wrong but just for being associated with a group.

This is not the LNP representing the public interest, this is the LNP Police State.

It is one set of rules for the ruling elite and another set of rules for everyone else and this case is just the epitome of the LNP, they have had months to act yet all they can do is spend up big on dodgy searches for planes that are not there and buy expensive US war birds. This shows precisely the LNP agenda, this is where they are at.

Lets chuck MP Abbot in jail without charge or another LNP sell out and see how long it lasts. The ALPLNP corporations do not care about Australians as this case demonstrates, they care more about where there next election bribe comes from and what they need to do to attract those corporate bribes.Yank,

That is what logic should dictate, however our logic is not based on the real deal. Abbot has got 3 years to sell us out as best as he can.

It does not matter how long he lasts really, he'll just retire at the end and kick back on a gold card and it will be some other stooge in the PM's office.

It does not matter if the ALP or LNP they are one and the same. They all take money from the same corporations and when it comes down to all agree on the main deal, more war, more asset sell off to political donors, more foreign ownership and higher taxes.

Thats is what you get out of a lesser of 2 evils, dumb and dumber system. This is the the monocrazy in action, real demoracy is dead.Turtle thats the job of the 2 party revolving door monocrazy. Who else are you going to blame for public servants locking up people without charge of any group? Thats the ALPLNP for you. The system has had enough time to work it out, yet nothing is done...thats a sick system. 

Thats what we pay politicians for.... to manage the public service, nothing else, and they can't even do that right. Worse still they have no intention of doing it.Phil. How many months was she held without charge?  How long did it take you to decide it was unlawful about 5 seconds? The ALPLNP do not care or it would of been sorted long ago.

This is just a little snapshot, this sort of thing happens every day in many different government departments. Thats why the cancer rate has increased 300% in 30 years, its no accident.Sara,

Is the PM concerned enough to go to the prison in person and ask for the legal justification to hold this person prisoner of the state? He has the power to go and ask for the lawful jurisdiction of here presence there. If the prison can show none, they have to release her on the spot. 

What Public Servant is going to argue with Abbot for holding someone for years without any form of Law? Th point is, he and th ALPLNP couldn't care less or he would of at least written a letter by now. He works for foreigners, this just shows what a sell out they all are.Michael,

"The real problem here is foetal alcohol syndrome and parents and communities", nope thats not why she is still locked up without charge, its because the public service and the ALPLNP do not care about Australians.

They care about Corporate bribes to pay for election brainwashing and that is all. This is what our supposed democracy amounts to. Get rid of the gangs. Get rid of election bribes and then perhaps the parliament will direct the public service to administer public interest.

At the moment the public service only administers corporate welfare and repression of Australians. That is why the ALPLNP Corporations only banned half of agent orange and why the cancer rate has increased 300% in 30 years. They are deliberately contaminating the food, water and air and are knowingly causing death and disease in the community, thats not protecting the public interest, thats the ALPLNP selling out.



It may be a for profit run prison but s an Australian she is protected by the Constitution and International Law. It is the job of the Public Service and Parliament to protect the public interest. They could not care less about about the public interests i am sorry and here is the proof.

The busck passing between state and fed and local is the biggest fraud every dropped on us. We could get rid of the states all together as they are all corrupt and all pathetic and under the gangland mentality of the ALPLNP this will not change.We have signed a contract with the UN to allow people at risk of persecution in their own countries to come to australia by any way they like to claim asylum.

What are our international contracts worth? yes they are open ended. We also have contracts with the pacific islands to take environmental refugees. The more coal we dig up the more refugees we will have in the future.

Let this be a lesson for all the brainwashed sheep, next time your ALPLNP invade other countries, we can expect a rush of people fleeing war for safety.
Zing,

Yes you must have no understanding in the matter which explains the ignorance, we signed International Contracts, its called the Refugee Convention. Go read it some time, Maybe Morrison and Abbot should read it as well. Then u can all sit around and scheme up ways to make like pirates on the high sea and try and keep a moral compass.

"You'd think they would flee in the other direction......unless they trust us more than their own people." Thats the problem their own people are being bombed by the ADF and the US war lords, so they are getting the hell out in the other direction. 

Next time the ALPLNP corporations want to make like terrorists and drop bombs on civilians without UN Sanctions, perhaps they can price in the humanitarian crisis and refugee issues. This is the costs of war, suck it up sunshine.

Do u know why the Military can find every little wooden boat that comes from the north but couldn't find a radar track on MH370 that flew right over the top of the whole navy and the Cocus and Christmas Island Radar stations? Nope thats because no one can, we are told to believe the LNP propaganda the same as the stupid and ignorant Stop the Boats slogan. 

Thats what we get having a corrupt capitalist 2 party system instead of a constitutional democracy.Frangipani,

Thanks for the insight. Regardless of the countries where people come from Australia has a contract to accept refugees once proven they are refugees. At the moment the gov is only taking wealthy Nth Hemi migrants and care nothing for genuine asylum seekers.

As for democracy, you have to really ask your self what is a democracy? Is it a choice between 2 corporations or 226 independent representatives managing the Public service on our behalf with our money? 

I suggest going back to school and re-reading the constitution not the main stream media ALPLNP version which they change without referendums. If we have 226 seats, why only 2 voices and 2 decision makers?  That is not too far off a dictatorship and is not the way the constitution was designed, its fraud. Its  corporate democracy.

And another thing would the US invaded Iraq and Afghanistan without Howard, maybe that why he was stage managed in NY for 911. How about the missing plane, did the US have radar imagery of the plane as they cover the area, how about the Australian military, did they have a radar track...Nope MP Abbot had to come out and say we did not know it flew right over the top of the whole navy and our radar stations without us even knowing but we can find every leaky wooden boat.

 The whole thing is a sham, the last 30 years have been a systemic failure of parliament and democracy. Its a foreign invasion in action.

This is what we have bceome, We will have our soldiers die and send the country broke "liberating" other Middle East countries but when refugees come here seeking liberation we send them back to war zones. 

Plenty of money for strike fighters, no money for the people displaced by war. 

Politics is about money not people. After all either the ALP or LNP will win the election so it doesn't matter who wins when you own the 2 of them. 

Asa for Australian politicians, he was born overseas and was educated/brainwashed overseas with US money. Its a bit rich to call it abbot an Australian politician and its his policy.Zing its a bit like the Roman way of doing things isn't it, torture someone by burning them alive and if they die they are innocent but if they stay alive they are witches and wizards. 

Thats the Roman empire for you though, always out to control the world through ignorance, fear and loads of money. They have been this way since Jesus was a boy, as a matter of fact thats why they murdered him.

Now we have a Roman Emperor in Australia and a full cathaholic front bench, foreign born foreign trained and this is what we get another Catholic Inquisition. 

They have to be dead to be a real refugee, is that it? I bet your regretting we didn't just nuke the whole middle east and done away with this whole refugee crisis all together??Its a clever diversion isn't it.

We can forget about the whole mess we are in and the way our political gangs have been taken over by corporate interests and foreign money.

Perhaps we all need to read the Constitution and brush up on the fundamentals of democracy and see if the concept of a PM and Opposition and political gang warfare was ever legally documented or whether these concepts have been implemented by corporate capitalist to control our democracy.

If our parliament was designed around 2 voices as its easier to make decisions apparently, we would of only had 2 seats in parliament. For some reason we have 226 voices and everyone voice means something, there is no opposition/bench warmers.

Why is that MP allegiance to there party is stronger than there allegiance to their constituents?

How much would it cost per year to buy up influence in both the major parties? That is what our parliament depends on, a tenuous little capitalist thread.

The ALPLNP change the constitution every year to suit themselves, its not our constitution anymore, if u don't believe it go and rad the first one with successful referendums and then compare it todays. 

Thats is why the parliament is so pathetic, they do not even work for us these days, its just gotten so obvious more and more people can see it, hence the direction of the article. 

What is the fix more of the ALPLNP show?Chris,

The Sunshine Coast is a political wasteland, look at the local councils and state government all a disgrace.  The Cancer rate has increased 300% in 30 years, that how much the ALPLNP care about voters. The place is falling apart, hundreds of thousands of dead trees due to environmental contamination, landslips all over the place, agent orange type carcinogense used throughout the region illegally.

The problem is with the voters, its their education. We were never taught in school what a real democracy was, we were told it was voting for a choice of gangs and that our democracy is based on 2 voices. 

What we were not told is that the ALPLNP Corporations have changed the constitution to allow only 2 corporations can have a say on public policy and public spending. We were not told they take money from foreign governments and from multinationals to do their dirty work.

We were not told that the ALPLNP have been bought out with the same money and work for the same commercial interests. Parties/gangs have caused the problem we should never look to them to try and fix it. The sooner people wake up to the commercial facts, the better.

So the problem is with the voters, they dont care about democracy, they are happy with a monocrazy it seems or else they are too stupid to work out they are being taken over by corporate interests.

GregL

If there were more people in the world that thought like that, the world would be a better place.

Its a sham, it is only now that people are starting to see it for what it is. I hope this parliamentary decay creates a whole new level of consciousness in the people.

The people do not trust mainstream media, the government or politicians any more. It had to happen sooner or later, they have been treating us like idiots for years and its become a complete joke. Its such a joke they even have to laugh about it amongst themselves, thats why there always looking happy.
Saulg,

I suggest go and do some research, the incidence of cancer has tippled in 30 yers, especially hormone related cancers (HRC's) like Breast, Prostate NH Lymphoma.

Its because the government has been contaminating the food and water with known carcinogens. Thats why its not in the media. If is was openly disclosed i the media that the governments responsible for perverting the public interest in favor of commercial interests for their political donors, they would all be in jail and it would the end of the ALPLNP gangs, they would all be in jail or all dead after everyone works out what the hell they have been consciously up to.

This is not what we pay them for, its what they are paid to do by their corporate donors. Its no accident we have Synthetic Estrogen (2,4-D) in the food chain and only 1/2 of Agent Orange was banned. To all those who have got a HRC or have loved ones with a HRC, i suggest going to talk to your lawyers and the APVMA and the ALPLNP Corporations. Ask them why they have poisoned you.V,

You have got grand delusions of what a democracy is, the government is there to manage the public service and represent there constituents.

I find it extraordinary that someone would try and validate an MP having an allegiance to there party/gang more than their constituents. That is socialism, not a democracy.

Its laughable to consider that "Politicians serve two masters - present-day voters and future generations." Maybe thats how the system was designed but now politicians work for their gangs, not the people in either the present or the future.

They work for corporate donations, as we have seen in ICAC and in Qld. Its a sham. They are all having a lend of us and the media are in cahoots with these industry politicians.

If you can buy up both parties, which happened years ago, you never loose an election. When was the last time multinationals and miners ever lost an election? You have been scammed.Descend The Maelstrom for PM,

Thats is the most sensible argument i have heard in a while. Its a shame the ALPLNPGr'sCUB wont listen. We need laws and regulation for future development and environmental sustainability, not another tax or charge or delusional diversion.

Thats the government for you, always up for yet another tax. Thats all it is a good idea to sell another form of taxation.

We need people like you in parliament not the likes of cathaholic priests and sold out lawyers. But people like you would not attract the corporate donations necessary to take control of the nation unfortunately.Seanon,

right you are, however we have signed contracts with the pacific islands to take their environmental refuges due to global warming and rising sea levels. 

However apparently we don't have to worry about international law anymore like what Morrison is saying, we can just rip up the Refugee convention and Geneva Convention (like the US did with Guantanamo) and the Rotterdam Convention and Kyoto and now we can just do the same with all the FTA's.  Yipee.

Thats one way of getting rid of the FTA's - the MP Abbot refugee precedence, Contract what Contract, Law what Law, Court what Court - not in our jurisdiction. We are the ALPLNP corporations and we take money from foreign nations and multinationals to sell out Australians, we can do whatever the hell we want....Who's going to stop us?What no one can explain - How is a new tax going to stop global warming...we are barking up the wrong tree. Perhaps we do not understand the gravity of not acting. The environment does not respond like a tax payer and do whatever the ALPLNP politicians tell it to do.

The environment is based on science, trying to fix it with economics/tax is like taking your car to a psychiatrist. We need scientists and environmentalists in parliament not sold out corporate lawyers dependent on corporate donations to buy votes and miners making environmental decisions.

However in a capitalist democracy 2 party fraud system, this is what u get.arf,

Can the market stop the planet warming can it repair biodiversity losses etc? Nope.  

Its a way of collecting more money off tax payers. Its not the solution. A tax just legitimise further pollution. 

The Gov can make laws and decide development applications, they are not considering reduce carbon, they make too much money out of it, so we are barking up the wrong tree.John,

Don't forget Clives privately charter plane to travel between countries. Passenger jets are just not cool any more. 

When the government gets involved in Climate Change its used as another excuse to raise taxes,u need a good reason these days to bleed the taxpayers even further.

Anyway what is the total rate of taxation in Australia between the local state and federal governments + all hidden taxes and charges? 75% give or take

Will a tax fix climate change or will regulation and law? Its just another tax people and has absolutely nothing to do with the environment. Will cutting down tassies forest, fracking and destroying the GBR fix climate change?
Hitler was not a threat to Australia, thats perhaps why Menzies thought that. Hitler was a threat to the financial mafia that had taken over Germany after there WW1 loss.

Japan would not of attempted to invade Australia if we were not invading other countries in Europe for the UK. So we made ourselves a target for Japan. Fair game really.

"The business community had to much to lose by stopping what was to become a six year bloodbath." Yep they just change the theater of war from one place to another to keep making money and sell the propaganda through the commercial owned press and make up pathetic excuses for new wars.

Sticking with the bullies and those that write history is by far the most profitable end of the stick and the most popular. That is until they boil in their own water by destroying this place as quick as they can.It will be interesting to see how a miner and coal barren approaches the logistics of climate change. It can't be any worse than the ALPLNP Corporations.

Do we need a tax to reduce carbon emission or laws to govern future resource and generation developments. The ALPLNP think that a tax is the way to go as it creates government revenue and bleeds the people and do nothing about regulating the future of the nation. 

Thats why these parties/gangs are dropping into obsolescence, lets hope the ALPLNPGr's have to merge to become a conglomerate as they all are all the same anyway. It will just be more honest, we can then see the delusion of a capitalist democracy for what it is, open to the highest bidder.

The ALPLNP are hell bent on cutting down the forests, poisoning the watertables with CSG fracking and destroying the GBR, lets get rid of the gangs that have taken control over the nation and trying to destroy the place in the name of attracting corporate donations under the guise of jobs jobs jobsAlan,

Didn't you know...has someone not told you yet? 

We are in rush to sell up all our resources right now!!! They are apparently not worth anything in the future, we have to dig it all up and sell it all off ASAP, there are many corporations and foreign nations that are dependent on the Great Southern Quarry.

Imagine what would happen if the miners weren't allowed to dig big holes, destroy the environment and sell off raw materials so ALPLNP donors could not get rich quick? All hell would break loose. 

Our future generations don't need resources they need big holes in the ground and need to get rid of the GBR as it stifles corporate profits. We need to frack the crap out of the place now so that we poison the watertables forever.

Silly us. Dig it up, sell it off to foreigners, ruin the place and dont leave anything for later, thats the plan stan. Who are we to argue anyway? 

If we don't have the money to compete with corporate donors we are worthless in the eyes of the ALPLNP, after all one of them will get in anyway to continue the quarry operations.Thats is what is going to happen. Soon enough the ALPLNP will officially merge as they pushed into obsolesce. They dont represent anyone or anything except foreign interests. They just put on an act to help creat the democratic idea of haveing a choice in leadership.

They all take money from the same corporations and foreign nations and do their dirty work like destroying the reef for money and destroying our farming sector to encourage foreign mining.

Its a 2 card trick, the ALP are there to get us into debt so that the LNP can sell it off and blame it on the ALP. You can't sell public assets to US NWO corporations if u dont have a debt crisis. 

For the price of a strike fighter you can buy the entire ALPLNP and Gr's. Only took $75k in Qld to buy up special favors for the LNP. If u own both the main parties and the reserve, they can buy a dozen strike fighters to reward the investment, even if we don't have the money and have to borrow it on interests from the same US Corporations.Rhonda,

When was the last time the ALP stood up for the underdog, during Rudd and Gillard the unions where not even supporting the ALP&lt; they do not work for unions, they work for foreigners as thats where the money is.

They say they work for the worker, but they don't. Ask them about GLORICIDE and the 300% increase in cancer in 30 years, they could not care less. The ALPLNPGr's are one and the same, all take money from the same foreign mafias.Does it really matter what happens?

The LNP will get voted back out and the ALP will get back into continue the plunder and people will get sick oif them because they are crap and then the LNP will be back with a new face and be exactly the same as now. 

Thats the revolving door of capitalist democracy. If u buy both main parties, you can't loose an election and when did the miners and the US ever loose an election?Whats the bet Clive/CUB will help the poor as long as it doesn't mean hurting his business interests. He sure as hell is doing nothing for his constituents so far.

Well thats better than what the ALPLNPGr's are doing who are all hell bent on higher taxes and over-regulation for everyone excluding themselves and the finance industry.Graazt,

I'm right with you, all parties have financial interests and they will always put them in front of the needs of their constituents, thats the 2 party system for you.

It not perfectly legal is Abbot does Mudrock/Rineharts/Twiggies interest, but its now the norm, it does not seem to offend the public or the police etc. The ALPLNP keep getting voted bck in and the cancer rate keeps growing tripled in 30 years.

If you have got enough money you can buy up the whole ALPLNPGr's, its that simple, thats what our democracy depends on, which is nothing. Thats why its not a real democracy, its a monocrazy.

Money talks, voters walk.

Yep,

It won't be long before the ALPLNP vote slips below 50% of the pop and they will be forced to merge. They are all the same anyway, lost touch with reality chasing corporate donations. 

The Romans care about the Roman Empire and their investments, not the homeless or sick unfortunately. Nothing has changed since Jesus was a boy.Clive, 

The enigma wrapped in a puzzle. He has got a significant point of difference than the other parties. All the other parties are under the control of foreigners and work for foreign interests, including the greens.

Clive couldn't care less about voters, however democracy is about having voices in parliament, thats why we have 226 of them but sadly an easy controlled number of voices who take money from the same financial mafia.

It would nice if a local member was under a legal obligation to take your matter to parliament, no matter what side of the political fence the issue effects. Sadly Clive so far has not delivered to his constituents and this point should be noted. We do need more real people in parliament, the world is sick of populist sold out lawyers and roman priests.

A lot of this hasn't unfolded yet, many things are yet to be exposed regarding the LNP and CUB. If Clive wants to keep getting voted in, he better pull his finger out and start helping his constituents.Look whats happened under the ALPLNP massive government debt, sell off of public assets, destroyed th GBR fracked the watertables, no functioning corruption watchdog for the Federal Gov, no Human Rights for Australians, no inquiry into Australian Media Hacking and Monopoly, massive cost of living etc

How much worse can it get?It seems that the the US gov followed you here Yank.

The same financial mafia that overthrew US democracy has taken over Australian Democracy and the nation. We all seem to look for the US for answers but the closer you look the more you have to ask is this what is best?

Its interesting to peer into the future and see what a complete financial/corporate takeover of Australia by the US would look like:

1) Mass gov debt and perpetual debt repayments to US banksters ...check
2) Selling off all all private assets to US owned corporations...check
3) Our ruling elite headhunted and sent overseas on all expenses paid scholarships/brainwashing...check
4) Reduce 226 members of parliament down to 2 easily controlled voices for  bit of loose change...check
5) Unelected migrant Senators inserted into parliament undemocratically ...check
6) The US using our military for their petrowars at our expense....check
7) Reduce public services and increase taxation to pay for US weaponry due to the long no win wars we keep finding ourselves in....check
8) US Military bases all over Australia..check
9) Australian MP's (Traitors) secretly giving information to US embassy staff and US agents...check
10) Increased US migrations and US news stories legally required to be put in our news media... check
11) US textbooks and spelling taking our our now nationalised eduction system...Check
12) Our PM being in NY to watch a plane hit a large building full of asbestos in the middle of the city be dropped with pin point precision not damaging surrounding buildings to justify 2 x 13 year wars/invasions....check
13) The US president giving our PM dodgy sat pictures of a plane that apparently escaped US and Australian radar and flew right over the top of our whole navy and radar stations on Christmas island and turn up of Perth, to coverup the real plot....check
14) Listing the Australian Commonwealth for sale to the highest bidder on the US Stocky...check

Seems like we are now a State of America. God help us all.

Gordon,

We may mine lots of Aluminum, but who owns the companies? Who are the majority shareholders in all 4 Australian Banks - the same group of US investment houses.

To protect the ignorant, may i suggest wrapping yourself completely in tin foil and bury your head in the sand, its a lot easier than accepting the hard truth of a complete corporate foreign invasion.Isn't it funny, the only thing the government don't want to regulate is big business.  They are over regulating tax payers and society, but when it comes to the financial mafia and corporate donors, its free love time.

Its one set of rules for the elite ruling class industrialists and another for everyone else. If you can't afford to pay off the ALPLNP corporations, your voice doesn't count. Industry has more of voice than a million disgruntled voters.Is this some kind of a sick joke, we all know what the ALP are like and just because they have new poster boy, they are still the same beast. They are not going to be any different, its just going to be more of the same.

The LNP would never get voted in if the ALP weren't so crap. We go from bad to worse and back again like a revolving door.

Thats the 2 party system for you. Democracy would never work, apparently it would take too long working out policies and deciding. 

The ALPLNP corporations rule Australia like a 2 headed dictatorship.What do u think these guys will be discussing at this meeting? Its not going to be jobs, not even jobs for the young. 

Its much more about mega business deals and international relations. MP Abbot recons they are not going to be talking about Climate Change, so what do u reckon they will be filling their time with?

Perhaps how to use citizens bank deposits to pay for bank investment risks and complete the task of total public asset sell off to the corporations that rule every NWO nation?? How to create more inequality and maintain total police states, what to add to water supplies to make a more docile society? How dumb they think we r and how easy it is to run this banking scam?Look whats happened to Australia under the ALPLNPGr corporate control of the parliament. We are killing the great barrier reef, fracked most of Australians geology and aquifers and are quickly ruining the nation. We have got rising salinity and hydrocarbon pollution due to CSG and are more in debt than we ever have been to foreign corporations.

These foreign corporations are the same corporations that pay for the ruing elites scholarships and their election expenses. We are on a one way trip to destruction and it is the ALPLNOPGr's Corporations taking us there. 

Plenty of money for MP Abbot to waste on phoney S&amp;R on US advice and plenty of money for overpriced US warbirds, plenty of money for higher wages and perks for pollies but no money for educating our future doctors, nurses and scientists or for treating sick kids. All they want is higher taxes, less services and more war.

This is the corporate agenda and all ALPLNPGr's voters are the problem. Its the voters that are the problem, without the voters putting these gangs in parliament, they would disappear off the face of the earth as they are defunct, pathetic sell outs with nothing to offer humanity.

In essence there is nothing wrong with capitalism as a form of trade, where it becomes sinister is when capitalism controls democracy through politics gangs. 

When the gangs centralise power away from the people, independents and the people have no chance. This is why they pay for foreign scholarships (such as MP'Abbot and his kids) anbd elkection bribes/donations. 

If people had control we would not be permanently destroying Australia i.e Fracking, Chemicals, GM, Cancer epidemic, Flouride etc. The gangs are well paid by corporations to destroy the nation. The corporations are business they dont give money they invest."Anti-democratic policies are hallmarks of capitalism"

That is the action of capitalists, not fundamental to capitalism. Thats far right capitalism and using duo-dictatoships under the guise of a democracy. 

Capitalism could be considered as a form of trade where by you sell your goods or services to the highest bidder, supply and demand. Thats a far different situation than using your money to overthrow a democracy.

When capitalist start controlling a democracy buy funding political campaigns and using inducements to buy out and manipulate the ruling elite i.e Scholarships, thats when (sh) it hits the fan, and that is exactly what has been going on since federation and probably before.

So what do you do? Get rid of capitalism or get rid of capitalist control of a democracy? Seems like we can't do either. If we got rid of the capitalist control of democracy through illegalising selling your parliamentary vote to another MP, we would be on a far better footing, that is for sure.Rob,

As long as the powers that be keep people squabbling over which gang is better i.e ALP, LNP or the Gr's, we are doomed to fail.

The purpose of the corporate empires redesigning our democracy around gangs is to ensure that they stay in power, as they actually all work for the same vested interests. These are the guys that pay the scholarships and election campaigns year after year after year.

All the gangs are sell out and will not deliver proper government, thats their purpose to attract the votes to keep real independents out of parliament. Look at Abbot: foreign born, foreign trained, foreign brainwashed all expenses paid.

We need to get the gangs out of parliament ASAP and restore democracy....they are ruining it for quick bucks from CSG, foreign lending contracts, war machines etc.Yep,

Look what happened when the ALP where last in the unions abandoned them and wanted to set up a new political corporation. The ALP are sell outs, look at Rudds coverup of GLORICIDE, just one in a string of murderous failures...all intentional. 

He fracked our Aquifers, dropped in unregulated nano technology and dodgy GM laced with 10x higher levels of synthetic estrogen (2,4-D) and we wonder why the cancer epidemic has grown 300% in 30 years.

The LNP and Grs's are just as bad and are all part of the same problem. The political corporations are there to serve empire, not the people. Its the gangs in parliament and the idiots that vote for them that are the problem.I've been saying it for a while, but look what happens when one of the main gangs loose control, the top 2 gangs gangup to control policy. Thats why they are there to control democracy and centralise power to the corporations and away from the people.

The only difference between the ALP and LNP is the name, but not for long, you watch how quick they will merge when they loose outright control. They are the same, they all stand for war and higher taxes and selling out the people.

Democracy is not allowed to be returned to the people and the system has been stacked in favor of the political corporations. While they are busy appearing to fight amongst themselves the corporations are ruing the place right under our noses i.e CSG, GM, Fluoride, GLORICIDE, foreign debt, sell off public infrastructure ie education, water, sewage electricity etc, food, seedsAJS,

Are bones made out of Calcium or Fluoride? There is a good reason doctors no longer prescribe Fluoride for osteoporosis, go do some research. Dentists are the only touting it and lets no forget they still tout mercury fillings.

"I don't see a world wide conspiracy with the spraying of wetlands in the Sunshine Coast" This is an example of the APVMA and QLD gov and the local council shutting shop and refusing to investigate or correspond. They should all be in jail but no gov department wants to investigate as they will find bureaucrats with blood all over them and of course massive liability for there intentional harming of thousands of people. It is no mistake that Hormone related Cancers have increased 300% in 30 years and predicted to rise unabated.

Thats the problem, the gov work for corporate empires and do not represent the public or the common good, they are all corrupt as all hell and all on the millionaires gravy train.

Who's going to send them to Jail when no one will investigate and the media could not care less about hundreds of thousands of dead trees, landslips and cancer???? What a few thousands people slowly dying of cancer and wiping out endangered species illegally? Who cares you no  longer need to registered new hormonal chemicals or operate under a valid permit???? The gov is actively doing everything they can to bypass any form of law or ethics in this case and just about every case.

No herbicides are tested on people before they are fed to humans on mass, that would be considered too dangerous and unethical. We still allow synthetic oestrogen to be consumed and now there is 2,4-D ready crops we are getting 10x the concentration of estrogen/ 2,4-D...anyone still wondering the massive increase in breast and prostate cancer etc????"Democracy needs a strong media"

Wrong, the author implies a strong media is a single media with entrenched socioeconomic interests, what we do need however is a strong diversity of media. A media is a form of brainwashing, a diversity of media ensures that many voices and opinions are heard, its the difference between a corporate dictatorship and a democracy.

We would all like to think we live in a democracy but all we have is a choice between dumb and dumber/ALP or LNP and the media is controlled by 2 or 3 families with clear corporate foreign agendas. How easy is it to control a democracy when there are only 2 or 3 families in control of the system who have no concept of the common good, only the corporate good.

Democracy in the true sense of the word has been overthrown by corporate empires control of the media and ALPLNP Corporations.Trev,

The police refusing to properly investigate and DPP refusing to prosecute is entirely different from no case to answer regarding his character.

The police are under the control of the ALPLNP and are the most corrupt business in australiaSad but true Carbon,

The LNP are paid by big business to screw the public and provide corporate welfare. We are being sold out by the gangs operating in parliament. Unfortunate under the Zionist media corporate empire we are led to believe that we have to do it.

We need to get the gangs out of politics and restore democracy as per the constitution, get rid of the Office fo the PM all together and delete all gov owned corporations and make them departments again.

Glad its becoming more obvious, once enough people realise we can unravel the corrupt system the corporate empires through the ALPLNPGrs have installed to enure gangs control parliament and people are locked out of democracy.

Wouldn't it be good if the ABC started informing people of the real news, not just trivial populalist news."Team Australia"or Captain America???? That is the question.

Australia is listed on the US stock exchange and as such is under the jurisdiction of the US Government, thanks for that Keating and the ALPLNP. Thats what you get from a Rhodes scholar though, they work for foreign interests, just like MP Abbot. An all expenses paid scholarship for you and your kids and your kids kids is a pretty powerful inducement/corruption especially on top of election funding for brainwashing.

This is straight out of the US playbook on 3 word slogans and electoral brainwashing. They think we are that stupid, sometimes i think they are wright.


Ha ha,

If we were speaking the same language as Abbot perhaps we would understand where he was coming from, but because he speaks Corporate gobbledygook we think he's a tool. 

If we were paying his education expenses and election brainwashing i am sure we would love his work. Do we send him back to where he came from on a rickety little wooden boat, how about a MH Flight?Wrong ZING,

The USA lost because they can't win. It was an invasion with no UN sanctions. That is a war crime in most peoples book.

They ran out of money and sent there country broke, thats why they lost and can't win a fight. Thats is why their own people are revolting against the US gov. They are going to self destruct as they are in perpetual debt. China and Russia are no doubt looking on laughing at this warmongers who can't win. They lost Vietnam, Somalia, Iraq x 2, Afghanistan etc How much money have they wasted and how much money did the corporations make from owning the pollies who pick unwinable fights?"at risk of losing its reputation "

All the LNP are good at is 

- selling public assets, 
- increasing foreign debt, 
- corporate welfare, 
- buying overpriced US weaponry and pick un-winable fights over foreign oi fields sending the country broke.
- increasing taxes and 
- cutting social services

Big business loves the LNP, small business hates them with passion after the GST and making small businesspeople pay tax 4 times a year and act s slaves for the ATO.

The LNP work for the Corporate Empires and market to the people, they are a scam and the ALP are the other prat of the sam that locks in control to the ruling elite. 

Guess who pays the LNP election bills and scholarships????


