It's horribly true. Israel's only response to anything they don't like in the West Bank or Gaza is to bomb Gaza. They cannot avoid civilians and children and they never do. Hospitals and UN posts are all too often hit. Crowds of Israelis are standing on hills and cheering as the bombs land on Gaza.

Then Obama weekly approves a list of people in Pakistan, Afghanistan, Yemen or Somalia, to be blown apart, along with anyone else nearby, by Hellfire missiles in so-called "surgical strikes" using drones. Only surgical if your doctor used Hellfire missiles instead of scalpels.

Those are not mistakes. They are deliberate. They cannot be justified, but the hypocrisy of these double values is vomitous.

All war crimes must be stopped, or the persons who committed them, who ordered them and who justified them must be hunted down until the day they die. No exceptions.NATO is a tool of the Americans and was formed to oppose Russian expansion. The EU on the other hand has significant interdependencies with Russia.

Currently Germany is kicking American spies out, having no more need of the Americans and not wanting to be their tools against Russia. When the Americans refused to repatriate German gold reserves long stored in the US, a train of events began.

What is fascinating is the distorted and incomplete perspective of what is really going on in the world we get from our mainstream media. Some of the banal comments we see here are an illustration of that.NATO is a tool of the Americans and was formed to oppose Russian expansion. The EU on the other hand has significant interdependencies with Russia.

Currently Germany is kicking American spies out, having no more need of the Americans and not wanting to be their tools against Russia. When the Americans refused to repatriate German gold reserves long stored in the US, a train of events began.

What is fascinating is the distorted and incomplete perspective of what is really going on in the world we get from our mainstream media. Some of the banal comments we see here are an illustration of that.The US Federal Aviation Authority has had an order in place for three months for any aircraft under its jurisdiction not to enter East Ukraine airspace.

Why other aircraft including Malaysian Airlines have been using that airspace, especially when planes have been downed there within the last week, is a mystery. Is Malaysian Airlines unlucky, or incompetent?Actually, Michael, the military plane was hit at high altitude, according to a news item on TV just now.Anyone planning to travel to or from Europe would do well to study the flight paths of any airline they may consider flying with.

We travelled to the UK on Qantas via Dubai eight weeks ago and came back four weeks ago. I noted the flight went up the middle of the Persian Gulf then diverted north over Iraq and avoided Syria by not much before crossing Turkey and over the Black Sea.

I would not fly that way now. Iraq has the uber-terrorists (some of our own boys included) in control of most of the country and the Americans are sending rockets and advisors to counter them.

Why airlines are still flying over conflict zones where superpowers are confronting each other in Ukraine and planes have been shot down there just days ago is beyond me.Stopover in Rome would keep you out of any current conflict zones, assuming Israel can tell the difference between a passing airliner and a Gaza hospital.Israel has a right to defend itself, sure.

Gaza must have a right to defend itself then, yes?

The death toll from Israel bombs and rockets stands at over 800, with more than 5000 injured. Many of those are women and children, non-combatants.

Netanyahoo blamed Hamas in Gaza for the disappearance of three Israeli teenagers in the West Bank and attacked Gaza claiming to be searching for them. It turns out he knew that the boys were already dead as their bodies were in ADF hands.

Of course, Gaza reacts with rockets. Israel starts the Final Solution, again. Many die, but when Israel sends in their elite commandos on the ground, they are chased out with over 30 casualties. Israelis stand on hilltops cheering as bombs land on Gaza. An Israeli professor has called for combatant's sisters to be raped to curb resistance.

Yet this government aids and abets the Israelis and corroborates their lies. We are even starting to behave a bit like them.If people are prepared to risk drowning then the miserable torment our elected sadists can inflict is preferable, obviously.

Since we accept a net overseas migration of near 250,000 a year, the huge expense of patrolling the sea and operating the concentration camps is wasted.

Our reputation among civilized nations is similar to our PM's reputation among statesmen - we are the bastards of the world.Rubbish! Numerous countries are each harbouring and providing for millions of refugees.

How can you have such a wrong understanding?Praise for Abbott was premature. He's now talking about sending troops to Ukraine.

I thought when he first started as PM that the only thing that would keep him in power in 2016 was if he managed to start a war with Indonesia. That's still on the cards but maybe he thinks a verbal skirmish with Russia might get him enough jingoistic enthusiasm to call a double dissolution.

Abbott's rhetoric is stepping up, while the actual circumstances of who brought the plane down is becoming less certain, but he's not listening.Abbott is welcome to his "children overboard" moment. He was in his element.

He got no kudos from removing the carbon tax though.How unfair though, big joe. The international media seem to think Australia has done nothing remarkable at the UN.

If you put "Australia UN" into Google news the first three pages are just items from Australian news outlets, delirious that Abbott has done something uncringeworthy, though the US is now saying it was an accident and there's no evidence Russia was directly involved.

The only other things were Julie Bishop telling the UN on 3 July that she rejects their criticism of Australia's handling of refugees and a story on 7 July about a UN report which puts Australia #1 for ecstasy users in the entire world.

There's not much praise either for Gary Quinlan, the diplomat appointed to head Australia's UN involvements in 2007 and who has led the current UN resolution negotiation.

So unfair.I don't see any "grudge match" as Annabel calls it.

More a kind of grudging respect from Abbott for Putin, after they talked face to face as "mates" would. Maybe after all this, Australia, Russia and Sri Lanka will form a closer relationship.This fumbling, bumbling, amateurish government was flown in on the wings of Rupert and feather-bedded by Pol Pot.

What do the Liberals expect when they, after promising not to, hit the economy with a series of shock and awe tactics that were already shown to do damage when they were tried in the UK by the Tories? This is the depression we have to have.

The interesting question that has not been answered, is whether the persons and companies which drive the Liberals from behind the scenes actually wanted this outcome. There are some, a few but powerful, who would want Australia to be in desperate straits and begging for whatever we can get.

I would hope that, whenever the next election arrives, we will throw out the government and also the leader, as we did last time.I do appreciate being patronized SVJ, but depression is a sustained, long-term downturn in economic activity and that's what we have got, certainly while Cock and Bull Tony and Sloppy Joe pursue their doctrinaire, ill-timed, pedantic and authoritarian policies, against all expert advice.

Russia has banned all Australian imports now, as well as the US and EU. The knee-jerk response to punish Russia to please the US has added injury to insult. Soon China will be looking West for minerals no doubt.I've got no problem with CCTV in public places.

The analogy with having full details of your internet and telecommunications is having CCTV in every room of every house, compulsorily.I presume Tory Boy's computer has a password and is never left on while unattended.

His young niece or nephew could never look at pornographic images, while the "metadata" was being collected and then find himself raided, charged, convicted, jailed for years and labelled a child sex offender for the rest of his life?

What your computer sees can be evidence that convicts you, despite that you may not have seen it, or never realized what would come up if you clicked on a link, or simply did not know that somebody else could access stuff on your computer while you were not in control of it.

It's not even clear what constitutes a crime in what we view on the Internet. Be very certain that Brandis' blanket snooping will snare many minor or unintentional offenders, once it's legal to collect evidence that way.The ABC Fact Checker was deceptively generous when it assessed this government's promises and found only 6 broken promises. What they did was to evaluate the government against the official published Liberal election platform, but that was only a small subset of the promises made by Cock and Bull Tony during the campaign, which is why many people are thinking - "It seems far more than that".

There are also numerous things the government has done which were never mentioned before the election and for which they cannot have any mandate.

Independent Australia has published a documented list of 50 broken promises by Abbott or other Liberals, promises which were made in public in front of the media but never ever delivered, in fact abandoned and the opposite to many has been not unusual.

It's not just the budget, but simmering outrage and humiliation that we were all fooled by blatant dishonesty and two-faced false impressions, while we were assailed by a shitstorm of one-sided personal hatred and discredit oozing relentlessly from the Murdoch machine.

It remains to be seen whether Murdoch and Col Pot and all their reality-benders can generate enough hatred against Labor and the Greens and Palmer to swing opinion back in favour of the Liberals, but that sense of having been deceived last time and seeing this government beavering away for a small portion of the population and businesses which can lobby and contribute will take a lot of covering up.Hockey has been going around claiming half the population pay no tax, which is deliberately untrue and he knows it but it may ring true to people like Not True (Heh!)

On 16 June 2014, in the UK which has a taxation system rather similar to our own, a study was released which shows the following:

"The British public dramatically underestimate what the poorest pay in tax and wrongly believe the richest face the biggest tax burden, according to new research that calls for a more progressive system.

The poorest 10% of households pay eight percentage points more of their income in all taxes than the richest ? 43% compared to 35%, according to a report from the Equality Trust.

The thinktank highlights what it sees as a gulf between perceptions of the tax system and reality. Its poll, conducted with Ipsos Mori found that nearly seven in ten people believe that households in the highest 10% income group pay more of their income in tax than those in the lowest 10%.

The survey of more than 1,000 people also found a strong majority ? 96% ? believe that the tax system should be more progressive than is currently the case."

So there! It would be not much different here. The poorest 10% actually carry a higher total tax burden, based on their ability to pay, than the richest 10%.

Once again, the truth is not the popular misconception and in fact, the rich are getting carried by the poor and middle classes. As always.Ideally mining companies should pay fair tax and still spend money on political and dishonest advertising - without success.So, politicians have advisors, advisors listen to a reporter's dishonestly obtained recording.

Who cares? Is anybody shocked? Only The Australian opinion writer assigned to try to smear Labor with it.

The Libs in Victoria are gone for all money, after one faltering term, and the presence of the chaotic, unscrupulous Abbott gang in Canberra only assures their fate.I wished Latham would have thrown Howard over his shoulder like a rag doll actually. Funny how different people view things differently.

I am a fervent lover of democracy and I wish we had it here.

What we have is a campaign period during which we hear lies and are subjected to smear and innuendo amounting to hate from a biased media with special guest hatemongers such as Pol Pot. We have political stunts, trumped up or selective criminal charges and false polling announcements.

Then after it's over all the promises and commitments are abandoned or misrepresented, at least with the current government. The compliant mass media ignores or excuses the dishonesty. The parliament becomes a cattle yard with the leader showing contempt for truth and process and the law.

The helpful media backer gets a payout reward around a cool billion and some nice new broadcasting licences (still to come). Various old cronies get fat contracts to sit on enquiries and panels to legitimize the party agenda that was specifically denied prior to the election.

Yes, I wish we had democracy in Australia, but we don't. We won't have democracy until we have means to hold governments to their promises and impeach a sitting government if they are as corrupt and dishonest as this one is.The tabloid headlines and slogans are not as annoying as the barefaced lies.

For example, we read that Ukraine forces are continuing their offensive against Donetz. We see television footage of Australian and international reporters walking around Donetz and being shown damage from Ukraine shelling by East Ukraine rebels, while shells fall. 

Julie Bishop running Operation Bring Them Home announces "I think Russia is trying to prevent accessing to the crash site"

I mean, this is partisan bulldust completely live. Do we believe our elected representatives or the evidence of our own eyes and ears? It illustrates the true nature of the propaganda purpose of Operation Bring Them Home.It's true. Mining companies receive generous concessions and support during the discovery and exploration phase.

They also declare profits offshore to avoid local company tax.

Royalties are based on "self-assessment", which means companies extracting resources decide how much they want to declare and be taxed on. We don't even have the benefit of a few jobs for inspectors to verify the volume of our national wealth they are spiriting away.

Like Norway, we should nationalize all minerals and market them as a nation and only allow private companies to extract under service contracts.

The current government has a devout ideological belief that private companies must do everything, but they are proven to be servants of private industry, in exchange for political donations which keep them in power. It's a vicious circle.Another thing: Royalties are calculated on the tonnage of minerals recovered, which means as the value of minerals goes up, the states are now receiving something like 2% of the value of the minerals extracted.

Labor made a big error with the mining tax, in that it's only on iron ore and coal and they assumed that the mining companies would continue to declare profits in Australia, but as we all know, profits dropped like a stone when the tax came in.How else to evaluate our national performance than by comparison with other countries?

Our economy is at or near the top of all developed countries, for now at least despite the damage being done by Cock and Bull Tony and Sloppy Joe.

Whether we finance our economy through revenue or debt, it's what good we do with the money for our infrastructure and our society that matters. What we fund today will be worth many times and would cost many times more in years ahead. 

The Sydney Opera House cost a lousy $100 million, we were going to be rooned. How much value have we got from that fabulous investment and how much would it cost today?

Whitlam was pillaried and ousted for trying to "buy back the farm" for a lousy $4 billion - the resources of the richest country on earth could have been in the hands of the people of Australia instead of benefitting private foreign carpetbaggers.Putin has an approval rating of 83% in Russia while Abbott had an approval rating of 24% in Australia until this latest ghastly MH17 tragedy happened.

Just why Putin is being held accountable when the EU and the US initiated the conflict is not clear.

Is Obama accountable for the atrocities that stem from arming the ISIS terrorists in Syria? Is Obama accountable for arming the Israelis to use against Gaza, with another few hundred million dollars just approved by US Congress to replace the bombs and rockets and bullets the Israelis have used to kill and injure 8,000 Gazans?

Where is our sense of balance and justice?The US was supplying weapons to the rebels in Syria when they were fighting the Assad government. Saudi Arabia has supplied weapons that come from all over via the black market to ISIS, who are their proxy fighters.

Recently ISIS has captured US weapons including heavy weapons.

It's the government of Syria that has received Russian weapons. Definitely, Russia has not supplied ISIS.As for Israel, the US gives them US$3 billion in foreign aid each year, since 2008 almost all of it military.

In actual fact, barely 1% of the US federal budget goes to foreign aid of any kind. Israel gets the lion's share and the US is not a generous aid giver.Get real Chaz. Russian spend on defence budget is only 7% that of NATO, let alone that of the US which is equal to the next 20 national spends combined.

Russia is not the devil here, or the aggressor. Russia is reacting to what they believe is mortal danger from foreign powers. Read a bit Chaz. The Cold War ended 25 years ago.Thanks, Chaz, for giving the party line view of what is happening in Russia.

There may be some truth in the western party line (a sniff of truth is essential to a false narrative), but in reality, Putin is wildly popular in Russia, the West is seen as expansionary and biased against Russia, Ukraine was subject to a CIA-supported coup, declared Nazis are part of the imposed new government, the government is in turmoil, the government itself is responsible for denying the air crash investigators into the crash area, not the rebels, Eastern Ukraine has vast reserves of gas and the Ukraine company trying to exploit that gas has Joe Biden's son Hunter Biden on its board of directors.

If you read, as you claim, go check all these facts. Read more widely anyway. The truth isn't in the pages of the Telegraph.Well said, Sir Trent. Abbott instinctively saw an opportunity, to curry favour with the Americans in their spontaneous attack on Putin and gain kudos with outraged Australians. All the green lights lined up.

That's why it's unfortunate and mystifying that it's the Ukraine government, which was installed after the coup supported by the Americans, who are disobeying the UN Security Council resolution to halt hositilies, sponsored by Australia.

Just why the Ukraine forces are resuming their attacks on East Ukraine and in particular Donetz, a city the size of Adelaide, is not clear.

That area happens to be a rich coal mining area, with huge reserves of gas recently identified. The Ukraine company which is exploiting the resources is Burisma, which appointed two new directors in April 2014, they being Devon Archer and Hunter Biden, both Americans. Hunter Biden is a lawyer, the son of Joe Biden the Vice President of The USA. Devon Archer is the younger Biden's former partner.Reduce the constraints on business?

That's a laugh. The Bunga Bunga Party has just required persons on the dole to apply for more than one job a day or lose their dole.

Think of the businesses fielding the calls and visits of hundreds of thousands of unemployed every day, all day. They can't put their phone number on the "no call list" because, well, they are in business.

That kind of stupid policy designed to harass the hapless unemployed yet which ends up harassing the employers is so typical of this no-talent government.

Add to that the certainty of more business robberies and break-ins caused by more people in dire straits financially and businesses will for sure regret believing this government wants to help them.Yes, a spiritual force, emanating from the white hot fury of seeing your family blown to pieces by cowardly drones or having your relatives tortured.

"According to Stratfor, a private intelligence company and sometime US government contractor, he (the self-appointed Caliph) was radicalised during a lengthy spell in an American prison during America's occupation of Iraq".

It's called "blowback".

Yet, despite the gold and blood wasted, the US hasn't had a proper military victory since Normandy.Never mind Brandis' pathetic efforts to appease Bolt and Murdoch on the lame pretext of freedom of speech. Here we have another example of a member of the LNP saying a complete falsehood, that the rest of the world is moving towards data retention.

This wonky, backsliding, flipflopping government is full of liars, not just Cock and Bull Tony.

Another one was Ian MacDonald, squawking about a gas shortage in NSW if we didn't start fracking all over with urgency. A complete lie to serve the interests of gas companies wanting to join the world gas market. Now the export is happening our local gas prices have tripled and people who had their cars converted to natural gas to save money are selling them urgently.

They only serve a small proportion of the people - those who can bribe them through "contributions".Oh Lordy, you are referring to an article by "Anthony Reuben, 
Head of statistics, BBC News", who seems to think killing civilian males is A-OK. Reuben? Is that a Jewish name, I don't know.

Reuben points out that, according to UN figures, "Among civilians, more than three times as many men were killed as women, while three times as many civilian men were killed as fighters".

He therefore deduces that bombing and shelling "were not indiscriminate". A very Jewish, clutching-at-straws kind of argument that we see a lot, too much in fact.

The BBC article is an opinion piece, yet not labelled as such. Oh Lordy, how far the BBC has fallen from the days when true balance was striven for.

I would recommend you read Haaretz, the Israeli newspaper, if you want a balanced reporting.Desperate to divert attention from the near 20% swing drubbing the Queensland LNP received at the weekend by-election, Campbell Newman announced that Vladimir Putin is "not welcome in Brisbane".

However, given a chance to speak directly with Putin, Tony Abbott said Putin was "saying all the right things". Not sure what to make of that.

Western media including ours has chosen to blame Putin and Russia, apparently for supplying weapons to their proxy allies. Isn't that a little bit hypocritical, especially for the US, which has been trying to insert its own proxy regime in Kiev, among many other places, and extend NATO into Ukraine and right up to Russian soil?

Russia may not be friendly with NATO or the US, but Russia's military budget is just 7% of NATO's.

It seems that Abbott's second thoughts about Putin "saying all the right things" is more reasonable than most commentators' furious old cold war rhetoric.

The ghastly downing of a peaceful domestic flight full of innocent human beings must surely be of shared responsibility between persistent US geopolitical aspirations, determined Russian resistance, military adventurism by the Ukraine installed regime, the Ukraine air traffic authorities and the struggling airlines which allowed their planes to cross war zones where planes had been shot down at high altitude only a few hours before MH17 was.Well, now you know, Whitey. Even old cold war weaponry like the BUK can reach twice the height that commercial aircraft travel at.

Undoubtedly, Putin bears vicarious liability for actions and mistakes of the pro-Russian separatists in Ukraine, but remember the new government replaced a pro-Russian elected government which was forced to flee by uS-sponsored riots and the new government contains several ministers from the Ukraine Nazi movement, including the defence and security ministers. The government is shelling the separatist enclaves and using weapons of mass destruction against its own people and they in turn are shooting down government planes.

To fly over that conflict, supplied with devastating weapons from Russia and the US, is amazingly rash and for the Ukraine government to declare that airspace safe is appalling. Good luck on your next flight.Abbott has mostly stopped the boats, even illegally stopping boats in the high seas and illegally sending people back to their tormentors. A future government may see fit to hand Abbott and Morrison over the International Court of Justice.

Australia is now seen as the bastards of the world.

Abbott has finally axed the carbon tax, though none of us will notice any savings though we will see more coal burned and other countries who don't have our wealth may use Abbott as an excuse to go back to coal as well.

Australia is now seen as the selfish grubs of the world.

Which is what we are unless we sweep Abbott away like dog doodoo off a front lawn as soon as we get the chance, which may be sooner than 2016.I think you will find you are incorrect AJS, in fact you are.

The big banks are underwritten by the Reserve Bank as 'lender of last resort" and this has been a fundamental condition in Australia just about forever.

What the Rudd Labor government did (I'm relying on memory so may be wrong on the actual amount) was guarantee individual bank accounts up to a value of $1 million. This was to stop a run on the banks by panicked account holders and it worked. Labor did not underwrite the banks.

As for the LNP reversing Labor policy, you must mean by increasing the tax on petrol. The carbon tax was insignificant and the people will never see a noticeable refund.Well anyway, the carbon tax is now repealed, so we will see whether more carbon is burned.

The people who agree with repeal of the carbon tax expect the price of most things to fall. Abbott has claimed that the average household cost reduction will be $550 a year, but estimates by actual qualified experts suggest a fall of $200 a year is to be expected. Even that is not certain.

I'm sure the people (who believed Abbott) will be disappointed to receive less than $4 a week, given their petrol/fuel costs will be rising far more than that and their medical expenses are going to rise and their social services and super contributions will shrink or disappear.

Still, Hockey is screeching for reduced spending. The Right has little use for facts, none more so than that Australia has a debt of 14% of GDP while the average debt of developed countries is over 70% of GDP.I see those Wicked Camper vans all the time as I live not far from the Pacific Highway.

Usually, it's a couple (male and female partners) or mixed sex group, not just young men travelling in them as some feminist complainants have asserted.

The honest truth is that young men and women when they travel are usually looking for sexual liaison, especially in the context of the camper van, but also on a cruise or a trip to a resort or any other type of journey that young people take away from the family home.

The statement by Helen Pringle "The company's latest slogan calls out to a girl to consider herself as a slut. And it calls out to men that she really "wants to try it", that she really wants to be humiliated." really does not warrant the added ending "... that she really wants to be humiliated". That is unnecessary and is not implied by the original slogan, which is in fact a truism. Why would a girl want to be humiliated?

Girls must have been even more induced to consider themselves as sluts by the nonsensical wave of feminist "slutwalks" that were performed all over the world in recent years.

By the way, the slogan "Women are like banks - once you withdraw you loose [sic] interest" could be considered a cautionary warning to women, rather than "demeaning".

This world would be a nastier place without amusing truisms written as slogans or graffiti for that matter. We do not need to "organize" against everything that isn't peachy keen and spotless. Men and women should speak out against these pogroms and not be excoriated by authoritarian matriarchs representing themselves as spokeswomen for all women."Clive Palmer reportedly responded by saying she should "get out of that job" if she was not prepared to act on his instructions. Yet it is an essential part of the clerk's job to advise senators upon compliance with the Constitution"

Anyone see the problem here? Clive Palmer is not a senator. He does not instruct the clerk on senate matters, he has no standing in the senate, he is nobody in the senate.

Still and all, Clive Palmer is twice the politician Abbott is. Abbott's replies to question time are arrogant, lame and irrelevant, a laughing stock.The alarm bells should be ringing when Abbott so fulsomely expresses admiration for the Japanese Imperial Army.

I was convinced when Abbott swept to power on the wings of Rupert that we would soon be in a lose-lose situation, but it's turning out to be a lose-lose-lose-lose-lose, etc situation.

Some of the hardy defenders of the Liberals who are still here on The Drum will truly deserve their knighthoods.Estimates of the average savings per household by abolishing the carbon tax are around $200 per year.

That figure is no match for the greedy grabs by business at the outset of the tax and a tiny fraction of the claims that Abbott has been saying the carbon tax costs us.

It hardly seems fair that we keep the bulk of the price rises and lose the benefits of the carbon mitigation and go back to filthy coal - all for a lousy $5 a week refund (if we're lucky).

Another Abbott lie exposed absolutely.So creepy the rationalization of incompetents and stooges representing the real powers behind the politics of both US parties. Who can forget the promotion of Dubya as a viable POTUS?

Then again, it's not just the US. Who can forget the fables created around Cock and Bull Tony? His only policies that survived a week after the election were refugee bastardisation and irrational economic austerity for the vast majority of Australians.

At a time when most Americans are sick of wars and the failure of wars, we see competing warmongers being offered up by each party, but being supported by the same weapons industry and the same proponents of The Great Game.

What a choice: the woman who cried out "Wow! Oh, wow" on seeing Gaddafi being murdered by her own Islamist terrorists and a new little bomb, drone and rocket apologist.

If the US is to try to revive its global dominance it will fail, but maybe destroy itself and the developed world, including little Australia under Cock and Bull Tony.Actually, Rolf has an exceptional talent for primitive painting and to see him slosh out an image with house paint and a few brushes that really is a good representation of the subject is something that many trained artists cannot achieve.

OK, so Rolf has a dark side but it's not that dark as to need to expunge everything that he has created and cancel all the good things he has done in his life.

There needs to be a scale of seriousness that has something like slapping at one end and brutal prolonged torture at the other. I put it to all the pogrom members here that Rolf's offences are nearer the former end than the latter and the punishment alone is sufficient.Agreed, Yank. Labor did listen to Treasury's advice to stimulate the economy directly rather than by gifting money to the banks as the US government does, which has only resulted in the US banks pushing most of that money into the trading markets and their own salaries and bonuses rather than fund real growth.

While Labor increased the federal sovereign debt, they also were able to preserve Australia's GDP growth, from Howard's $750 billion a year in 2007 to $1520 billion in 2013. That's a lot more than the debt rise - much, much more.

Where would we be if the Liberals had been in power and caused our GDP to fall, like most other countries? They still would have had to increase spending somewhat just to stay electorally viable and we still would be a little pissant country in the world. Labor did the right thing, but the Liberals, with media support, were able to cast Labor's policies as wasteful, which they were not.Isn't it about time that we stopped viewing people as production units who have more value if they work.

We are slowly removing the source of gainful employment in manufacturing and primary production, while we still undervalue employment in services (such as public services) and hold next to no value in being unemployed.

This is a slow but relentless process as we gradually run out of meaningful occupations.

We need to reinforce human rights as inalienable and reject simpletons in politics who hold a view that only work is linked to value, that labour is only of significance as a resource to be bought and used. If we don't insist on being seen as valuable if we are not in classical employment, many of us will become the underclass, while ever we have politicians of the low fundamentalist type without any foresight or imagination.

We need to use the vote we still have to protect our very way of life and move towards one at least as good.Without even giving it serious thought, I can say that without doubt, if I have the chance to buy some of Rolf's art at a throwaway price offered by some airhead or feminist seller, I will snap it up.

That's for two reasons: One is that notoriety never hurts collectable sales and the other is that Rolf was convicted under today's standards and not under the standards of the times long ago.

I can say, having lived through those days of the 60s, 70s and even 80s, that they were different times, when such acts that Rolf is convicted of today were regarded as mere misdemeanours or breaches of sexual etiquette and honestly, most men in those days are just as guilty.I see the latest Morgan Poll has the ALP at 57.5% 2PP and the Liberals at 42.5%.

This was after Palmer gave Abbott the backing to repeal the carbon tax, so there's no apparent relief from the electoral vengeance that the Liberals are provoking. Few people expect any noticeable financial benefit anyway, compared to the many financial burdens being introduced by Abbott on the vast majority of voters, but especially anyone unemployed, disabled or mentally ill.

It's not, obviously, that voters are so impressed with Labor, but simply that the Liberals have been so uniformly incompetent and plain abominable. They rule for their contributors and not the Australian people. They make us the bastards of the world.

It's all about trust Abbott said before the election. Yeah.It seems airheads often jump in with a distraction to the core topic of articles on The Drum. Like, why is there a discussion about population when the article is trying to make sense of Abbott, Palmer and Gore?

One of the interesting issues which has not been canvassed by the media is Palmer's insistence that Abbott "force" in the legislation the refund of price increases attributed or blamed on the carbon tax.

There are many documented instances of overcharging and in fact Abbott has built a set of exaggerations about how much the carbon tax has cost householders.

Now, Abbott has said he will be happy to "force" the full refund of the price increases due to the carbon tax, that is the increases which he has been claiming.

That's going to be interesting as businesses would have to refund not only the carbon tax increases, but also the increases which Abbott has stated were due to the carbon tax, while trying to expand the effect of the carbon tax for political effect.

As Abbott gloats over his second parliamentary success in a year (the first being the Greens passing his massive increase in the debt ceiling), delivering the full refund is going to be impossible."Retract that statement"? Ha, ha, ha. 

The research document is a working paper prepared by four IMF full time researchers. A very clumsy and weak attempt to discredit it Ben the Lawyer. It's simply a fact, Howard was the only profligate waster in a century and that was to buy elections with income tax reductions, which we fell for it is true.

As Clive Palmer said to the parliament recently, the Liberals are talking rubbish. He said Australia is one of the least indebted countries in the OECD, with 12% of GDP. The average within the OECD is 73% of GDP. Australia is one of the few with an intact AAA rating.

Yet with the lying, exaggerating and plain fabricating that the Liberals have been able to propagate, fervently spread by Murdoch and the likes of Chris Berg, a false impression was created before the election.

No amount of repeating will revive that false impression. The polls show a big majority now understand the economic situation does not justify the rabid Liberal policies that shift wealth onto the poor while profiting the rich and will damage GDP growth.

My fellow countrymen may forget the current budget and be swayed by promises from Abbott before the next election, but they would have to forget that promises from Cock and Bull Tony are bound to be broken and I doubt they will forget that in just two years.

Still to come is the recession caused by Abbott. It's not likely Abbott will recover popularity because, in fact, he was never popular.A lawyer would know the difference between evidence and semantics Ben.Let's not forget that Islamic State (nice counterpoint to Jewish State is it not?) is a delayed response to the western interference in Iraq, Syria, Lybia, the marginalization of Muslims, the assassination of Bin Laden, et al.

Let's not forget either that Islamic State is directly supported by certain, unnamed elements in Saudi Arabia, Emirates and other of our "allies" in the Middle East, on ethnic Sunni/Shia grounds and out of hatred of Israel. We never hear about that aspect of the problem in mainstream media.

Islamic State now has 100,000 fighters and is gobbling up other rebel forces virtually every week.

We have a US President under fire for being "soft" on "Islamists" and an Australian PM floundering pathetically in virtually every way. What could be more natural than to throw US and Australian military into an ineffective, dishonourable campaign of bombing and drones in the belief that the distraction will help them both politically?

The Americans have not had a true military victory since Normandy. Despite their military might, on the balance of probabilities they will not have a military victory this time either.

What we see is a re-run of the fall of the Roman Empire, done in decades this time rather than in centuries, driven by foolish mistakes. The repercussions are far less predictable than the outcome.On the contrary, APM, the gist of my comment was that the West is and has been creating and exacerbating the "terrorist" situation and has been using tactics which many experts have predicted would make things worse and backfire on the West.

When I say "the West" I mean the self-serving leadership in politics and the military who have jumped to the use of projected power. I don't mean the vast populations of citizens of Western countries who have been merely onlookers, fodder or victims of the stupid policies of the leaders and their lobbyists.

You neocons have done a lot of harm, to the West as well as to the rest. You have only one reaction, one strategy, one methodology and that is to destroy anything and anyone that you label as "others".

Some would say that when you have only a hammer, everything looks like a nail, but others would say, the definition of stupidity is doing the same thing over and over and expecting a different result.Given that News.com published a story on Qantas wages and said that a second officer on an A380 starts on less than $100k, I must cast doubt on your claim that cabin crew make that kind of money, unless they are working a lot of overtime.

What we do know however is that News journalists average $178k. I do believe even Murdoch's readers would expect the spinners at News would be worth less than pilots and cabin crew.It truly offends me when the LNP starts slandering low income earners as "leaners" with "a sense of entitlement" while comparing them to "lifters", falsely claiming low income earners pay no tax while the higher income earners pay too much.

Of course, they don't qualify their smear by explaining it's only true of income tax. In reality, low income earners and even those whose income comes from welfare pay numerous other taxes besides income tax.

In the UK, the poorest 10% of households pay eight percentage points more of their income in all taxes than the richest ? 43% compared to 35%, according to a report from the Equality Trust in July 2014.

It would be similar here, as our tax system is close to that of the UK.

All the effort put in by previous Liberal governments to lift the burden of taxation on higher income earners was bogus.
Gross domestic product in Australia was less than $400 billion in 2000. In 2014 GDP is nearly $1600 billion.

So while federal government spending has gone up, GDP has gone up much more.

The problem is that Howard's relentless income tax reductions to the higher income population have made it impossible to balance the federal budget.

That's it, in a nutshell, and now hitting the lower income population, in a high cost country, will not only be unfair in the same way as their former tax reductions to the wealthy were, but will damage the GDP and hence damage revenues, making the situation worse.

These people can't add up. What they are doing is counter-productive to their claimed objectives. They are only concerned for a small proportion of the people. Their interests lie in causing higher unemployment to reduce the cost of labour and lowering wages for the same reasons.

They exploit popular misconceptions and prejudices and benefit from the lavish self-serving support of Rupert Murdoch, but they unabashedly act against the interests of the vast majority of Australians and the country.Even though Labor had to deal with the GFC, their average increase in spending (3.4% pa) was substantially less than the average increase of John Howard (4.3% pa).

The facts show that in the five years from 2000-01, the Howard government increased real government spending by around 23%. In the five years from 2007-08, when Labor  controlled the budget purse strings, growth in real government spending was a tick over 17%, including the 12.7% increase in 2008-09 when the GFC was bearing down on the Australian economy, threatening a recession.

What is more, Howard relentlessly reduced taxation, especially mostly on higher income earners, by raising the higher income tax brackets to finally a top bracket of 45c for every dollar over $150k in 2007, from a top bracket when Howard came to power of 47c for every dollar over $50k.

This could be a very fine country, the best in the world, if Howard had not used income tax reductions to buy elections.

The IMF itself has criticized Howard for spending wastefully, but has praised Rudd and Gillard for spending effectively and necessarily.

It is worth noting at this point that there were three years in the Hawke/Keating era and two years in the Rudd/Gillard era where there were cuts in real government spending, but over the last 40 years, the Coalition have never once cut spending while the Labor Party has delivered real cuts in five of its budgets.

The cut in government spending in 2012/2013 under Gillard was the largest cut ever recorded in Australia.

Yet the likes of Berg, in the interests of the right-wing Institute of Public Affairs propaganda machine, once again burps out falsehoods, spreading the lie that the conservatives are less wasteful, yet it simply isn't true.

The conservatives have divested themselves from facts and the truth. They know that if you can shout from the bully pulpit of sympathetic media, owned by blatant self-serving rent-seekers, you can create a false truth or a myth.Why ever would Labor support the budget, even after negotiation and necessarily capitulation by the Bunga Bunga Party on all of its extreme and totally unfair policies?

Here we are in Team Ozfailure, with Cock and Bull Tony as the captain. Every day that goes by we see incompetence, distractions, lies and threats, while the entire claim that the country is going to be ruined unless we take away all the "privileges" of the lowest earning members of our society is clearly seen as a fabrication, which it always was.

There is a possibility that a double dissolution could be forced on the government, which is not something Labor should fear.Clearly, Tony Abbott would feel more at home relating to Probowo Subianto as Indonesian leader, just as he feels at home relating to the Japanese militarist Shinzo Abe, even as Japan re-arms and re-militarizes.

With Jokowi, it's likely Abbott will see him as a weak leader and either insult, denigrate or disrespect him and the new Indonesian leadership. He and Morrison will no doubt keep sending refugees back in little orange boats paid for by us and allow our warships to violate Indonesian sovereign waters.

Which will set the stage for deteriorating relations and the likely election next time of a more aggressive leader and more expansionist government and the likelihood of friction and conflict and a new little "cold war" with Indonesia.

In such a scenario, would the Americans be uncertain which side (Australia or Indonesia) represents most their real "interests", because if the State Department or the CIA sees Indonesia as equally or more important in the geopolitics of the near future, Abbott will have dealt us a nasty legacy.In the last stages of the election campaign, during the "debates", Tony Abbott responded to a lengthy comment from Kevin Rudd with the lame "Does this guy ever shut up?"

A politician in the last stages of a campaign, a contender to lead the nation, lost for a reply to a complex issue articulated by his opponent, says "Does this guy ever shut up?"

That's what we have got - a one dimensional pretender. If Abbott can survive that and all his other dumb inanities, I doubt Clive Palmer will lose votes for an outburst against the Chinese.So, Time Magazine, as the "opinion-shaping global juggernaut", is doing more to help those women in the world who are genuinely oppressed than feminism is doing?

I think that's the point, is it not?Well, "pete", it so happens that Paula Mathewson was a media advisor to John Howard, so don't be reciting your ABC hatred as if it's an arguing point in the debate.

In fact, comparison between the ABC and the commercial media is a good example of public versus private ownership of enterprises. The ABC have high barriers to entry for presenters and journalists, while the commercial media operatives almost universally appear to have been "discovered" by talent scouts whilst serving coffee or operating a taxi. The commercial media pay their people two or three times as much money as the ABC pays theirs, yet they lack education, intellect and professionalism in comparison.

No wonder Abbott is at war with the ABC. They have no choice but to question his lies.

Even the SBS, which operates on a shoestring budget, exhibits more quality, balance and professionalism than any of Murdoch's information benders.

So much for public versus private enterprise and no wonder with such examples that the vast majority of voters oppose privatization of public assets.Of course the Murdoch press is bolstering Abbott - certainly not mentioning that Abbott chose to politicize the tragic deaths of hundreds of innocent people in order to get a boost in the polls.

Enthused, he went too far with his "shirtfront" outburst and made us all look like juveniles. We are not all juveniles, although readers of Murdoch's papers and Fox News are still juveniles, even as they pass through baby-boomerdom into the next hereafter.

The G20 meeting was a disaster for Abbott and the Bunga Bunga Party. They are now isolated in the world and the main players on the world stage simply took the agenda off them and proceeded with their own, pre-arranged agenda. Abbott looks worst, Hockey second worst.We need growth because growth will pay off our debt without any stupid austerity pain. Jobs won't be hurt by growth but they rely more on commercial conditions and government policies and initiatives, so what we don't need is recession which is what this hopeless government is leading us into.

We don't need an increase in the GST because that would reduce demand, hurt small businesses which are the overall biggest employers and hurt workers at the low end of the pay scales far more than those on fat incomes (who are not so numerous as the other end anyway).

We need wage growth especially, because that will return more income to governments and help pay off the deficit and the debt, as well as adding jet fuel to the domestic economy.

Abbott will of course cause recession, not growth. It's already happening. The religion of austerity, the sackings and destruction of good, proper, permanent jobs will continue. Costs will rise with every privatization and every concession to big business, who own Abbott like a child owns a dolly.

When Cock and Bull Tony and Sloppy Joe talk about jobs and growth, they secretly mean the opposite. They lie. They have other objectives. Their big backers want lower wages and a pool of jobless to force workers to take any job on offer. It's a huge game of deception, but most people will see through it soon enough.Yes, gbe, businesses and industries established and owned by the public should stay in public hands. In surveys, over 80% of Australians say so when surveyed..

Otherwise, the public have paid to set up the structures and services and then we sell profitable businesses which are paying into public revenues, to carpetbaggers who simply raise the money to buy the public enterprise at 30c in the dollar.

Often, the state guarantees the predicted return on investment, leading of course to we the taxpayers subsidizing the carpetbagger's profits.

So we lose triply: First when we lose revenue that pays for other services, second when we get less than what the enterprise cost us and thirdly when we pay out the difference between what the carpetbaggers predicted they would earn from the investment.

It's all open to shyster manipulation. We subsisise the private investors. They get an asset at less than market value. It's always the same and especially when we have a government in the pocket of tycoons and the banks.

On top of that, the service is always reduced and the cost always goes up. Always!

Now tell me why you say public ownership is inefficient. We shouldn't go back to that?

In actual truth, public and private ownership are not at an advantage to one another. It's the quality of management that determines efficiency, not who the owners are.

The private sector rewards its executives and CEO at much higher self-determined rates than the public sector while paying their productive workers less. That's the definition of inefficiency. Distribution of wealth to the few at the top end of income earner spectrum has negative benefits for the overall economy - and growth.

France has introduced a 70% top marginal tax rate for the super income earners, leading to rentseekers like Depardieu moving to Russia.  That's a win-win for France.JRM, neither you or Blind Freddy can detect pollution levels by looking at them.

That's the problem with climate change deniers. They actually believe their own wishful and subjective observations trump scientific measurements.

Then they pretend to understand complex data while cherry-picking whatever details they think may indicate doubt in the mind of scientists. Hilariously, when IPCC first released their raw data, the very next day paid deniers working for Big Soot were commenting stuff like: "I ran that data through my software and there was no problem at all". Dozens of them, all at once.

I think I know what they ran the data through and pulled their comments out of - their arsenal of potted slogans from Liesforlibs.com.Each of our big coal-burning power stations consume about 100-140 tons of coal every hour and exhale over 300 tons of CO2, while removing over 200 tons of Oxygen from the atmosphere - each hour.

Alan Jones, being inumerate, would not be able to picture the size of a ton of gas, but it's a big volume and 300 of them every hour is a hell of a big volume.

Just dwell on the sheer magnitude of the CO2 being made and the Oxygen being destroyed by electricity generators, every hour.

Then think about how CO2 is a small percentage (.04% or one 2,500th of the air we breath) of the atmosphere. Life on Earth (plants, animals, insects, humans) have become adapted to living in that mix of gases. We are changing that proportion much too quickly for living things to evolve to, let alone for the environment to cope with.

And yet, there are already clean alternatives that cost bugger all to use like wind and sun. Whole countries are changing to solar and for example South Australia is about 50% wind power. A serious government initiative towards clean energy would create many decent, satisfying jobs. It's a huge task requiring skills and labour.

Even if you doubt that CO2 is a pollutant and doubt that the climate is changing very much, the other benefits are still compelling.

But there are cretins who want to burn coal, for some obstinate, ridiculous, irrational reason which is due to pig-headedness or vested interest. They will not be convinced. We will have to wait for them to die out (the sooner the better for mankind), because the young are certainly convinced and keen to change to clean energy.

It's obvious that it's mostly silly old fools from a less educated former times, who will not have to face the results of climate change, sea level rise, bushfires and violent weather, who are coal enthusiasts. They should shut up and think. As for "clean coal" - what a joke.What struck me watching the video of the leaders after the photos were taken was how alone and isolated Abbott looked. As others talked and gathered in small groups, Abbott stood looking into the distance, all alone, pale-faced.

To the other world leaders, Australia has become the silly little country that was deluded into voting in the party led by "that guy?".

Abbott's the odd man out, in so many ways. I never had to cringe so hard in my entire long life. My only consolation is that I never voted for them. I never believed those many lies, by Abbott and by Murdoch, but I feel collective humiliation that so many of my educated fellow countrymen did.So sorry Other John. I don't think the footage was made by the ABC. Maybe Reuters has got it in for Abbott as well?

Unfortunately Abbott has lost the advantage of moral high ground by making a fool of himself on the world stage, which means the victims and their loved and loving ones are now further disadvantaged. He must have got enthused when his proactive attitude towards Putin got an unexpected good public reception in Australia and, like many a loudmouth sledger, he went too far.

He should have left it to Julie Bishop. There's an  old saying:  "Do you want to fight, or do you want to win?"Julie Bishop isn't being subjected to the misogyny which Julia Gillard was subjected to, either by Abbott or by the opposition.

No Ditch the Bitch banners, constant deprecation and criticism, character assassination or dog whistles to sexist pigs of whom we have so many in our society.

Not even chauvinism, but that's because no male in the coalition appears to be able to walk and chew gum simultaneously. Imagine one of those gumboots trying to take Bishop down - they would be laughed out of town. "Can't bowl, can't throw" comes to mind and they are all gormless and liars to boot, to a man.

Mind you, she's been handed a dream run - just fly around talking to people on the world stage, at a time of troubles that have no solutions. Gillard did it better.

Bishop is the only Liberal actually doing the actual job of a minister without constantly humiliating herself. She's not outstanding except in the context of the Bunga Bunga Party. It's better to be queen of dung than dung of queens they say.

I see Abbott has dropped the "shirtfront" of Putin now by the way - now it's a "robust conversation". I venture the "shirtfront" would still be on the agenda if Putin was a female.Whitlam was prime minister of Australia, not of Vietnam or East Timor. He was not a colonialist however and his decision to exit the Vietnam War and to support the exit of the Portugese colonialists from Timor were decisions made on principle and policy.

The persecution of the Vietnamese who supported the US invasion was tragic and reprehensible, but a country which was carpet bombed by B52s for many years does not harbor generosity of spirit towards those who helped it happen.

The treatment of the East Timorese at the hands of the Indonesians and their fellow countrymen who were supporters of the Indonesians was terrible, but Whitlam cannot have foreseen all that long suffering and persecution and anyway the decision to allow the integration of East Timor into Indonesia was not just Whitlam's.

What is sad is that Whitlam's grand plan to buy back the farm, those Australian assets which were owned and were being bought and still are being bought by foreign corporations, never succeeded. For a lousy $4 billion dollars (a huge sum at the time admittedly) we could still be in public possession of all the minerals and commodities in this land.

Today that $4 billion wouldn't buy a Jamie Packer casino in Sir Lanka.

As some idiot said, Whitlam doesn't look so good in the light of a few facts, but I would say, there are very few that discredit Whitlam in any way and those are debatable.Thanks for your opinion clete. I have my evidence of my own eyes but you are entitled to hold an opinion, though unsupported by any evidence you have offered.

As Whitlam said in '69:

"The sole purpose of Australia's participation in the civil war in Vietnam was to keep United States military forces involved on the mainland of Asia. The sole achievement of that war?the sole consequence of the devastation of an entire country, the destruction of a proud and civilised nation, the loss of over 300 Australian lives, the political destruction of one of the strongest presidents in America's history, the near disruption of the American political system?has been to hasten, to make certain, that American withdrawal from our region which our participation was supposed to delay or prevent. Australian arms remain undimmed; but Australian policy has never suffered so total and unrelieved a defeat."Just a minute. Cassidy is beavering away for an increase in GST and points to NZ under Key as a good example, but consider their tax system:

up to $14,000 10.5 cents plus levy of 1.45c
from $14,001 to $48,000 17.5 cents plus levy of 1.45c
from $48,001 to $70,000 30 cents plus levy of 1.45c
$70,001 and over 33 cents plus levy of 1.45c

"No-notification" ie unregistered earners pay 45 cents in every dollar

There is no low income tax-free buffer and the big earners properly registered with the tax office pay no more than 33c. On top of that they pay 15c GST. There is no capital gains tax. Then property rates and excise added.

It's patterned on the UK system and nearly as regressive. The effect is that they tax the lower income sector a larger proportion of their income than they tax the big earners.

Not only do the poor get less income, but they are slugged a larger proportion of their income than the rich.

It's a much less equitable tax system than we have here in Australia, and Cassidy wants to emulate it.

No wonder the likes of Kim DotCom go there to run their global file-sharing business.

The GST increase is not the solution. When the GST was introduced it sent our economy into recession the next year, though Australia's economy was arguably stronger then than now.

Of course, Abbott will do it. He lied again and again that he wouldn't so it's inevitable. Why omit a lie - go for the 100%. 

Reverse integrity it's called.Yes hairy, but New Zealand has always been close to England in its habits and culture, hence the tax system still has aspects of the UK system.

Why do right-wingers see everything through class divide and left-right bigotry?

It's also worth pointing out that New Zealand has a GDP of less than $200 billion with a population of 4.6 million, while Australia has a GDP of nearly $1600 billion with a population of 24 million. So, New Zealand's GDP is one eighth of ours with one fifth the population. That's not worth copying is it?

In fact, Singapore has about 60% higher GDP than NZ with a land base the size of the Eastern suburbs of Sydney, no natural resources and only a 5 million population - about the same as NZ.

The UK is also much, much more in debt than Australia is, it taxes the poor even more than New Zealand does, such that the bottom 10% of earners pay 43% of their income in all taxes while the top 10% pay only 35% of their income in all taxes. Most people even in England do not realize how unfair to the poor their tax system is.

We do not want to be like them. It is unfair and also inefficient. It's just easy for politicians who want to raise money.

As for Thatcher, who passed a law that money sent offshore was not subject to any income tax, that woman was a traitor to the great British people and a sycophant to privilege. It's no wonder that so many working class people are attracted to UKIP, the racist nationalist and very working class new party.neil, your figures make no sense.

I think you are paying GST on your income tax!!!!!

No, neil, no.The police shouldn't be promoting new legislation that gives them new and far reaching powers, albeit alongside an attorney general who struggles to walk and chew gum.

What a pathetic bunch this government is, dragging the police into justification for their intrusive and unnecessary laws to give them undeserved gravitas.

Having the uniform alongside the clown though, seems to be having the opposite effect to what they are hoping.

The disappointing thing is that right wing Labor is in unison with Brandis for fear of being called weak on terrorists. Who's the bigger fool - the idiot or the guy who agrees with the idiot.I never heard of her either, but Dr Gail Dines is a professor of sociology and women's studies at Wheelock College in Boston. Her latest book is Pornland: How Porn has Hijacked our Sexuality.

Now, this article by Ruby Hamid is warning about black feminists spitting from the movement because they feel they are not treated equally, or at least they don't believe they could get away with speaking so openly and forthrightly as Dunham has about child sexuality.

Good on Dunham for describing reality and being herself by the way, because that's the way it is. I and my siblings, my children and my grandchildren all have among us individuals who, while innocent at heart, have been inquisitive and experimental in sexual ways or at least about the intimate parts of the body.

Is it any wonder that black feminists feel different on the grounds of their color, or see their issues as different from white bourgoise women, when feminists as such cover the full spectrum from wowsers to women's liberationists and believe they each are speaking for all women or at least those women who call themselves feminists.

Feminism has become factionalised. It started off pure but now every female with an axe to grind has harnessed feminism to serve her cause. Like all "isms" it tends towards  authoritarianism. And loses followers for that reason.Yet another lie, that this government would be a "small government", "low interference government" and promote "freedom" and "liberty" in society and in commerce.

Yet just one year after the election, with the conservatives still protected by the wings of Rupert and others, our rights are being taken away, an authoritarian government is intent on paying back its dues to the "interests" that funded and assisted its rise to power and our living conditions if we work or receive any government welfare or run a small business are being degraded at a great rate.

Abbott has surrounded himself with sycophants and appointed trusty devotees to positions of decision and power. The formula is well documented - the classical fascist state. We are going back to 1945 all right, but whose side will be on?What a laugh the claim that electricity bills are going down. It seems the wholesale rate to retailers is what the ABS is tracking rather than actual electricity bills to users. My own bill shows a microscopically small reduction in the price per kWh after 1 July, but the off peak rate was actually higher and more than cancelled out the other tiny rate drop.

We hear about reductions of 5% and even higher, but that's not to us consumers. No wonder surveys show people think the price of electricity is going up when the ABS figures claim it is going down.

Origin Energy has an explanation for confused customers as follows:-

"The carbon repeal has been finalised, why am I seeing a price increase on my bill?
On 1 July natural gas prices increased in SA, QLD and NSW and electricity prices increased in SA, QLD and for some customers in NSW. This increase happened independently of the carbon repeal as a result of changed network, energy and retailing costs, and forms part of our ongoing annual price review cycle."

So there we have it - give with one hand, take with the other. They took 15% when the carbon tax was introduced, now they take more when the carbon tax is removed.

Thanks - for NUTHIN !!!!! Less than nuthin in fact.

Business thinks they can get away with anything with this government running interference for them. Record profits for retailers - mere middle men - are not what this country needs.
No we must not have a GST with a broader base or an increased rate. That would be a lazy, cowardly, political solution which would increase inequity against the lower income earners.

A study in the UK last June revealed the lowest 10% of earners paid a total 43% of their income in total taxes while the highest 10% of earners only paid 35% of their income in total taxes.

That is a double injustice, as those with less income are paying more of their income in taxes although they have even less to live on and support their families.

So much for Hockey's disgusting expletive claim that higher income earners are "lifters' while lower income earners are "leaners", talking only about one tax, income tax on declarable income.

In the run up to the UK 2010 general election there were reports that the Conservatives would raise VAT if they gained power.  The party denied the reports (how familiar). Following the election in May 2010, Chancellor George Osborne announced that the standard rate of VAT would increase to 20% with effect from 4 January 2011.

That burdensome tax, the UK version of the GST, exacerbates the already inequitable share of the total tax burden that UK working class citizens have to endure.

The UK economy has been lousy, with miniscule growth, ten times as much national debt as Australia and growing and still heavy military spending. The one-term Tories are behind in the polls and likely will be turfed out next year, but the harm to the economy has been done and the balance between the rich and poor has been tipped heavily in favour of the rich, who are the real "leaners".

If we want to repeat a stupid move that has been proven to not work and to harm society and the economy, increase the GST. Of course Abbott will.Among the litany of lies told by Abbott and his followers before the election and since has been the claim that they would be a "small government, with less burdensome regulation".

Instead, we have an authoritarian, interfering and invasive government keen to empower scrutiny of all aspects of our private lives. Furthermore, although they are moving to reduce business regulation, it will mainly be to reduce safety requirements and curbs on misbehaviour.

Even business is being burdened indirectly by policies aimed at persecuting the unemployed and requiring them to apply for more than one job a day.

From a security and surveillance perspective, the current system of only monitoring the communications of those who are suspected or suspicious means any real culprits are easier to surveil and more likely to reveal their intentions, yet blanket surveillance merely causes those we need to watch to avoid all those behaviours which are known to be scrutinized.

It's stupid tactics. It hurts the innocent more than the guilty. It will catch few if any real terrorists, once it is known that everyone's interests are being recorded for the previous years. 

We should never reward stupid, ineffective laws, especially when they embody broken promises, burnt freedoms and hypocrisy.One of the few instinctive genuine acts of goodness I have ever seen was the freeze on cattle exports to Indonesia by Senator Joe Ludwig and the Gillard government after proof of appalling and disgusting torture of cattle from Australia in hideous conditions was revealed.

My sincere hope is that the Abbott government will resist with all its might paying a single cent to the producers who knew or suspected what was happening but only expressed horror when the photographic and video evidence was published.

It was the industry body charged with policing the treatment of export animals which should be punished and the studied blindness of their corrupt inspectors should attract 20-year jail terms.

Humans consume animals but the least we owe them is a good life and a speedy death free of terror and pain.

The government compensating producers for the sins of their inspectors and their own uncaring inattention would be precisely like the government picking up the compensation tab for the church for the sexual abuse of the children in their care.

Well done to the Gillard government, in this case at least.You're making most of that up Drover.

1. There is no road between Malaysia and Indonesia. Cattle have to come by sea. Indonesia comprises many small islands and the beef consuming population is mainly in Java and Sumatra.
2. The places where cattle were being tormented to death were not abattoirs, they were yards and sheds and the animals were being killed with knives and bled out, eyes poked out, legs broken to get them on the ground, tendons slashed to bring them down and worse..
3. Under Australian laws, the exporter is responsible for the treatment of the animals right up to slaughter and they were not even trying to comply.
4. The producers in Australia were accomplices in the deliberate flouting of Australian law. A government like the current one which has no respect for the rule of law would not take action, but the Gillard government did.
5. It's not within our power to force our standards on Brazil or Malaysia for that matter, but if you care to read a bit you will find that Brazil in the last ten years since they wrote their Constitution has stronger animal cruelty regulations than we have. They even have it written into the Constitution as well as in the common law.
6. Indonesians may buy land in the Northern Territory to raise cattle but they are still bound by Australian export laws.In fact, Helvi, Forrest is incorrect in saying that distributed power generation requires capital investment in the grid. Quite the contrary, as solar panels and inverters supplement the power being consumed locally and actually reduce the need for grid capacity expansion in most situations.

As for wind farms, they are usually not far from high voltage power lines and only require a short stub connection, usually underground.

It's true that grid investment has far exceeded the effect on power prices caused by the carbon tax and power prices have been rising strongly for more than a decade, but it's also true that removing the carbon tax has had a virtual non-effect on power prices.

Nobody here can show a 5% reduction in their kWh cost of electricity since the carbon tax was abolished, as promised by Abbott. We lost the benefits of the carbon tax and got next to nothing back.

As for gas prices, those are set to triple to global rates because our Industry Minister MacFarlane pushing to export gas overseas, without reserving a small proportion for the local consumers. The number of vehicles that were fitted with gas equipment and are now being dumped on the second hand market at giveaway prices is remarkable.

This truly is a high cost, highly intrusive, inequitable and controlling government.Not exactly, paulinadelaide. Tax on superannuation contributions is 15%, so only the taxable income subject to more than 15% is affected. If you are in the top tax bracket paying 45c in the dollar income tax, you save 30c on every dollar you put into super. If you are earning less than $18000 under this government, you actually pay more tax on your super than on your income.

So yes, it's the wealthy that get the most concessional benefit. Under Howard (just before he lost his seat) a person could put $1 million into their super in one year, saving over $300k in tax.Koukoulas asks "Why is Abbott considering a GST hike?".

The answer is obvious. His promise on a stack of bibles to not increase GST is just about the only promise he hasn't yet broken. A compulsive liar is, ........ well, compulsive.

It's the slimy, euphemistic nature of his lies that really rankles though, the polish that he puts on the turds, learned from a lifetime of lying for reward, insensitive to those he has damaged and obsequious to those who have money and power.

Of course, if he could take more away from the battlers, the people who don't live in his and Hockey's electorates, the people who already pay more of their incomes in total taxes and government charges, he would.

Indeed, that is the effect of increasing the GST, since the majority of the population, those on low to medium incomes, the battlers, do most of the buying and spending, putting them firmly on target to suffer most from a GST hike in this country of extremely high prices. Business, especially small business which is struggling today like never before, will also suffer from lower demand and lesser profits.

When Howard first introduced the GST, the country was pushed into recession the following year. Another increase will force another recession.

As long as Abbott's backers and contributors don't suffer, never mind, but they will. They will.No, Kevin Wunterm, Abbott has been repeatedly refusing to rule out an increase in the breadth or rate of the 10 per cent GST. That's not after seeking a mandate at the next election, is it?

Now he's trying to shift the blame to Labor because Labor had Treasury do modelling on a GST increase which showed an average two-income, two child family would be $205 per fortnight worse off if the GST was increased to as little as 12.5%.

That's a typical Abbott reaction to being pilloried by the public and the media as a hypocrite - blame Labor somehow. As Labor found out, by having a sensible investigation by experts from Treasury, a GST increase would be stupid and unfair, taking a far higher proportion of a low income family's income away than from a higher income family.

A total fool - no manliness or integrity. Only macho.".. Have you forgotten it was Whitlam who took away common law rights of all Territorians when he introduced the Aboriginal Land Rights Act".

Excuse me? Every NT citizen has the common law right to require other people to seek their permission to go onto their land. Do you think that Aborigines should be the only ones to not have the right to say who goes on their land?

By the way, the Blue Mud Bay decision merely extends aboriginal land from the high tide mark to the low tide mark. Big deal!It's the water between the high tide mark and the low tide mark that's the subject of the Blue Mud Bay decision, which was in 2008, not in Whitlam's day.

The High Court decided that the Territory's Fisheries Act is valid and that licences and permits to fish issued by the Territory Government are valid. However, the Court also decided that Government licences and permits to fish do not give the people who hold them any permission to go onto water over Aboriginal land.Paula Matthewson wrote: "....only 38 per cent of voters support having a carbon tax or emissions trading scheme to manage climate change".

I actually clicked on the link and read the survey. It would be more correct to summarize the results as "... only 33% of voters supported abolishing the carbon tax and replacing it with nothing".

Now that we have received the "benefit" of the carbon tax being removed and the claimed 5% reduction in power bills has not happened (I got a reduction from 31.6c per kWH to 30.93c per kWH which is about 2% on the usage and about 1% on the whole bill), it's clear that any benefits of the carbon tax are gone, but we never got the refund anyway.

Listening to global warming deniers on climate change compared to climate scientists is like listening to an atheist on religion compared to the Pope or the Archbishop of Canterbury. The argument is settled: It's still getting hotter and we are to blame.Abbott's a two-faced compulsive liar, in fact I cannot think of a single truthful thing he has said. The liberals are crooked after less than one term and should be jailed like they had Pauline Hanson jailed for similar electoral fraud. Ten MPs and one minister in NSW alone.

I'm sure the apologists for Abbott will be able to dredge up some minor truthful thing Abbott has said or promised, but it won't be anything big. OK, they stopped that boats, but so what! They are bringing in foreign workers at a great rate, just for the asking of any of their "friends" who want cheap labour. A team of 350 Spanish workers just arrived in Macksville to build a section of the Pacific Highway over the next 18 months - are there no road workers in Australia?

The cost of patrolling the seas (not just economic) is massive. They are wasting even more money on Abbott's grandiose gestures like the vast search of the Southern Ocean for MH370. Tormenting legal refugees (who have endured great risk and hardship) offshore is costing $80k per person per week, against a lousy $500 a fortnight to have them on Newstart if necessary.

It's a bitter victory and a massive waste of OUR TAX DOLLARS, but they don't care. They put up such a scream about the need for a budget surplus but they will never deliver one. They are blatantly robbing the lower income sectors to feed the rich and haven't touched middle class welfare. This is truly the worst government ever.I wonder if the malcontents who are attacking political, police and military targets around the western world have realized that indiscriminate murder of totally blameless civilians wherever they can (so easily) get to them is actually quite contrary to their interests?

Maybe attacking "high value" targets is now seen as a better value proposition, especially at a time when "the authorities" are held in low disrespect.I hear the ABS is claiming that electricity charges have dropped by 5% since the carbon tax was abolished.

That seems unlikely and it certainly is not something I can see in my power bill. In fact, only the kWH rate could possibly be affected and not the access and service charges. The rate in my rural location before the tax was removed was 31.11c per kWH and afterwards the new rate was 30.83c per kWH - vanishingly small.

On the other hand, my supplier actually raised the off peak rate from 12.22c per kWH to 12.63c per kWH.

So, despite the lifting of the tax off the electricity company, my cost of kilowatt hours has gone up.

So much for Abbott's promise to police the savings to consumers. That's another broken promise. I bet there is nobody in the real world who can show a 5% reduction in their power bill. Even the once-proud ABS has been scared into falsifying data. Everything is a slogan or a lie.Regrettably, it seems Bill Shorten is showing his lack of judgment with his tendency to cleave to some of Abbott's most stupid policies, like his enthusiastic supporting Australian military involvement in Iraq and his pugilistic statements on banning Putin from the G20 meetings.

If Australians have to choose between a fool and a me-too fool, I suspect they will choose the fool. This is borne out by Labor's weakening in the polls and the Greens picking up in the polls, while the Bunga Bunga Party gets some political benefit from having a supine and supportive opposition. The fact that Abbott and Shorten went to the same private Catholic school and both represent right wing factions of their respective parties does not bode well, especially when they are both reading from the same policy sheet.

Unfortunately for Shorten, Abbott at his best is a far better communicator, even if he spouts total rubbish. If Abbott can get away with "Does this guy ever shut up?" when the argument gets too complicated for him, then Shorten better learn how to communicate and when to shut up, and never, never, never give a sucker an even break.Rather than nationalizing all the mining companies as such, we should take a compulsory public share proportionate to the public money contributed or given in concessions to miners as they explore and as they produce.

Why do we pour public money into private businesses that eventually become hugely profitable and pay us back with nothing more than a few tens of thousand of jobs, company tax which they minimize by declaring profits offshore in tax havens and some miserable royalties collected by the states?

The miners also leave massive scars on the landscape or pollute the seas and rivers and never properly comply with their requirements to repair the damage.

Also, when a mining company sits on an approved project without proceeding with it, possibly waiting for best market conditions or deliberately creating a shortage of some commodity, that project must revert to public ownership, without compensation.

Otherwise, we won't be the richest country per capita, we'll be a giant version of Nauru after the guano ran out.

We don't need the miners. They need us.Figures released earlier this month by the Productivity Commission show the mining industry received $492 million in direct subsidies last year. 

But senior economist with the Australia Institute, Matt Grudnoff, says if you include tax concessions provided to mining companies, the amount of subsidy per annum is almost ten times that figure. 

"The mining industry has the lowest rate of corporate tax because it has so many tax concessions," he said. "The average is about 21 per cent, the mining industry only pays 14 per cent."

Whether it's direct public grants or foregone revenue, it's still subsidies. Compare that to the paltry few hundred million to keep the auto manufacturing industry in Australia which is less than what Abbott has wasted sending ships and machines to search the ocean month after month for MH370.

Does anyone seriously think that miners wouldn't be able to raise their own capital to explore and to extract minerals if the government stopped subsidies? Our money is being squandered so our wealth in the ground can be pilfered for far too little return and the government is the pickpocket for the miners.

We should like Norway - own and exploit our own resources.Instead of passing new all encompassing, crude and clumsy legislation that makes us all paranoid, as Brandis has proven himself so unable to avoid, they should have just kept turning a blind eye to the security service snooping and let them decide who they spy on, albeit illegally or not.

ASIO and ASIS have been doing it without legal basis for years. How do you think they picked up on the crazy, gibbering guy who is now described as "a senior leader of ISIS", who is supposed to have told somebody else to go out and cut a throat, any throat. And as Leyonhjelm has said, why would a Shiite be a leader of the exclusively Sunni ISIS?

No, Abbott just had to boast how tough he is, bringing in new wider but totally unnecessary surveillance, hoping to get some political kudos. That's all it is. The security services will be cursing him. He's sent the quarry underground now.

He'd rather make us like the old USSR than actually prevent any act of terrorism. He's so boofy he's going to physically  tackle Putin (an unwise move for a one-punch boxer with no style against a black belt in judo).

This government seems to lack a single adult member (pun intended).Trouble is, the whole exercise of 800 police raiding in three states resulted in only one arrest. That arrest was of a Shiite man who by definition cannot be a member od ISIS.

As for the guy who attacked two policemen who approached him in the street, who used a 3.5 inch knife and got shot dead multiple times, that doesn't sound like a terrorist to me.

Now and with the new all-restricting new laws and Stazi-like rights for the secret service and the police, any would be terrorist or group are forewarned and harder to detect.All those hard-working rich people - Alan Bond, Nathan Tinkler, Eddie Obeid, Jamie Packer. Shining examples of .... well, privilege, but work they did, and some still do.

All the big banks had teams dedicated to loaning money to Bond, I recall it well. Small businesses, not so much.

Way back in the sixties or early seventies I believe it was, Jamie's grandpa Frank Packer walked through the reporters' work area at The Daily Telegraph and thought - there are too many journalists sitting down. That night he had 100 chairs removed to the basement - ah yes, the clever business sense of the born to rule. We would be lost without them.I think you'll find Kacer that there actually are no really, really wealthy business people who have gone about their lives in an ethical manner for many years, provided jobs for others and are model citizens of this country. No self-made ones anyway.

Go ahead, name some.Shorten is not as effective verbally as Plibersek and he doesn't have the charisma of Albanese but Labor have a much better team than the unrepresentative swill that Abbott has. Nor does Shorten, unlike Abbott, treat his fellows as threats to his leadership, always setting them up to fail or be the bastards instead of him or be surprised by nonsensical "captain's picks" that they all have to do backflips to fall into line with.

If we look back at various past leaders, the ones who could cruelly and crudely sledge the opponents like Keating or Lang or Abbott are not the ones who we wish to return (though Keating had a lot more class than Abbott). It's the likes of  Curtin or Chifley or Menzies who are remembered fondly, you know - gentlemen, not boofheads.

The stupidity of Howard is also more obvious now, with that relentless tax relief for the better off, election after election causing the current inability to run a budget surplus without inequitable austerity.

The asinine grant by Howard in 2006 to self managed super fund owners of the ability to borrow money and buy real estate has grown unproductive real estate investment to the extent that over $20 billion of smsf money has gone into fuelling the housing bubble.

Then there's the cowardly tricks by Abbott like his slush fund that led to Pauline Hanson being falsely imprisoned, the punishment of Peter Slipper for a $900 misuse of parliamentary expenses while Abbott traveled first class for years and stayed at 5 start accommodation while doing fun runs and surf swims that were merely campaigning at public expense and the royal commission into the home insulation scheme (a scheme that actually improved fire risk and lowered death rates in home insulation by 4 and 8 times). The royal commission into unions was a sneaky, vindictive pursuit of Julia Gillard that didn't work.

While ever Abbott is deliberately doing harm to most of the population while funneling economic benefits to those in society who are already well off and who are seen to be Abbott's voters and while those beneficiaries are small in number while those harmed are large in number, sooner or later the swing against Abbott will develop momentum and never recover and no amount of war rhetoric and threatening to "shirtfront" Putin or playing to the sadists in society who love to see helpless refugees tormented will make any difference.

Next election, who but dimwits could possibly believe Abbott's election promises? Australians are not dimwits.SVJ, if the ABC moderators would allow me a little indulgence to respond to your nit pick:

1. I said the team, not the leader, was unrepresentative. So, your reference about the leader selection process is incongruous and irrelevant.
2. Picking out a few words from my comments and turning them into a false straw man so you can disagree with your own straw man is also lazy.Shorten is not as effective verbally as Plibersek and he doesn't have the charisma of Albanese but Labor have a much better team than the unrepresentative swill that Abbott has. Nor does Shorten, unlike Abbott, treat his fellows as threats to his leadership, always setting them up to fail or be the bastards instead of him or be surprised by nonsensical "captain's picks" that they all have to do backflips to fall into line with.

If we look back at various past leaders, the ones who could cruelly and crudely sledge the opponents like Keating or Lang or Abbott are not the ones who we wish to return (though Keating had a lot more class than Abbott). It's the likes of  Curtin or Chifley or Menzies who are remembered fondly, you know - gentlemen.

While ever Abbott is deliberately doing harm to most of the population while funneling economic benefits to those in society who are already well off and who are seen to be Abbott's voters and while those beneficiaries are small in number while those harmed are large in number, sooner or later the swing against Abbott will develop momentum and never recover and no amount of war rhetoric and threatening to "shirtfront" Putin or playing to the sadists in society who love to see helpless refugees tormented will make any difference.

Next election, who could possibly believe Abbott's election promises? Australians are not dimwits.One thing is for sure: If Europe continues to pander to US mischief-making by supporting sanctions on Russia, then the US will have scored damage on both competitors to their hegemony. More fools Europe.

The IMF, like the UN, is simply a tool of the one Global Power.It will be very interesting when the US imminently stops quantitative and qualitative easing.

Quantitative easing is the central bank shoveling money into the economy, by way of private banks which are supposed to distribute the money into the wider economy, but don't.

Qualitative easing is the central bank buying up worthless equities from private banks, so they don't have to declare their huge gambling losses.

The US Reserve has been for years doing both quantitative and qualitative easing, roughly US$80 billion a month total and 50% of each type of easing.

See what a nice gentle word "easing" is. I love euphemisms, they are so relaxing. The US has the best euphemisms. I hope there will be a euphemism-led recovery. It's nice to have hope.The Labor Party isn't "left" at all, except in comparison with the hilariously named Liberal Party.

Perhaps a better name for the Liberals would be the Business Authoritarian Party and the for the Labor Party maybe, the Slightly Left of the Business Authoritarian Party.

Both parties are right wing. The main detectable difference is the slightly more economically distributive attributes of the Labor Party, but both parties have a history of supporting accumulation of wealth in the hands of the filthy rich.

Both parties delegate their foreign policy to foreign power control. 

The current Liberal government under Cock and Bull Tony and Sloppy Joe have certainly tried to move hard right, but unsuccessfully, unless they can weaken the democratic process. They have also been caught in electoral corruption fraud, "slush fund" abuses and abuse of the power of the State for political purposes, but Labor are not differentiated enough to take real advantage.What a clever idea Peter - unions as distributors of public welfare instead of Centrelink. In the process taking a more generous attitude to the needs of unemployed and injured workers and advocating for more welfare funding from within government.

It has potential. Only about $8 billion of the federal budget of about $400 billion currently goes to the dole and unemployed benefits. That's only 2%. Having unions directly driving the distribution process would definitely lead to greater justice for the disadvantaged.AGB, under the Constitution and The Australian Electoral Act statutes the last possible election date is Saturday, 14 January 2017. The last possible date for a double dissolution is 16 July 2016.

However, even if Abbott is so unpopular at that time that he needs to delay the election until the last possible second, he will think twice about holding an election during the Christmas holidays.

Hence, we will likely have only a maximum of about 2 years to wait. Probably less.

You rightly point out, however, that real democracy does not exist in Australia.It was Morris Iemma and Andrew Scippione making up special laws to protect the Catholic World Youth Day pilgrims in 2008 in Sydney from "offensive" comments and fines up to $5500 for causing them "annoyance". The NSW government spent $60 million of public money on hosting the conference.

We have a lot of powerful Catholics in politics in both major parties and in the Police.The people of NSW subsidized the $60 million contributed by the NSW government. They are not all Catholic. Only the private sector would have made money. The rest of us were simply inconvenienced and disadvantaged.

I'm in agreement with Pavo. The item mentioned by Lambie was the Burqa, which is not a fashion item, but an obligatory garment worn at the insistence of fundamentalists who may well be women, but to suit men. The Burqa is most similar to a beekeepers helmet and most certainly is not intended to express the aesthetic dress sense of the wearer.

The many people who have seen this issue as a woman's right to choose what she wears are being na?ve. Nor is the Burqa prescribed in the Koran, which merely proposes that women draw some of their clothing across their face when in the sight of men who are not their husband.

This is not a right to wear issue, it's a right to not have to wear issue. It should not be misrepresented by being seen only through our own shallow perspective of a woman should be able to wear whatever she "likes".Liberal Party powerbrokers would never see a woman as a leader, more likely as someone to pour the coffee and hand around the sandwiches.

Look at the appalling female-baiting shown by Abbott throughout the last term of government. Look at the ongoing attempts by Abbott to smear Gillard by royal commission, because she called him a misogynist and made him feel ashamed, so one insider said.

We may not have another female PM for a while, but Gillard will prosper while Abbott sinks into his George W Bush obscurity.That's incorrect Neil. The home insulation industry was active during Howard's nasty years and the rate of home fires stemming from home insulation work was more than 4 times higher than under HIS. The rate of home insulation fatalities under Howard was 8 times higher than under the HIS.

In fact, since Abbott took over the number of workplace fatalities has jumped. There have been 12 mining fatalities so far in 2014, for example, and 16 construction industry fatalities. There have been more fatalities so far in 2014 than the whole of 2013.

That's because the Liberals "remove red tape" for business, which in reality means safety practices are self-regulated and crooked businesses are no concern of this government.

Remember, there were only 3 fatalities during the entire 1.2 million homes HIS, one of which was a young guy who died of heatstroke on his first day.The real problem in Argentina is that many years of military dictatorship allowed the wealthy to sock away the nation's wealth and avoid paying tax. It's similar to the problems in Greece.

When Keynesian policies from 2001 started a rapid recovery, the government struggled to get moneyed people to pay their lawful share of tax and necessary debt to the IMF and private banks could not be repaid, leading to default on foreign debt.

Currently, certain "vulture funds" purchased Argentine bonds, which were in default, at a fraction of a cent in the dollar and started legal action in the US to recover the value at original book value. Argentina has repaid the IMF in full and could be recovering, but relentless legal action by carpetbaggers out of the US is crippling that recovery.

However, a contempt of court ruling in New York has little real clout in the sovereign state of Argentina. It just makes it even harder to secure foreign credit to fund growth in a Keynesian way.

There is internal conflict, between the old wealthy class who were the backers of the vicious juntas and the rest of the population, no doubt stirred along by CIA programs. That's why smuggling money out of the country is being prevented as much as possible.Nobody has a right to manufacture history Whitey, or pull it out of somewhere. Peron was from 1946 to 1955, the first military coup was 1930.We should contemplate today's article on the front page of The Independent UK, which says:

"Isis is an hour from Baghdad, the Iraq army has little chance against it, and air strikes won't help".

Abbott has volunteered us for a role as punishers in the Middle East which will inevitably end up as a land-based war with the same losses of life, same maiming and wounding and the same waste of money as before.Less than a year ago certain silly journalists were lauding Abbott for his apparent federalism. States were to do what states are supposed to do and the federal government would stick to its knitting as well.

Now we have Abbott expanding the Federal Police role, Pyne telling states how to shape their education policies and curricula and health being manipulated from Canberra.

He was just lying, you see. Just saying something to suit whoever he was talking to at the time. A habit he grew up with obviously."If you are going to fling accusations around you had better make sure that you can support them with evidence."

Maybe you should direct that comment at Abbott. It was Abbott who brought on the Royal Commission into unions in order to snare Julia Gillard on criminality in acting for the AWU. Despite intensive enquiries and investigations, despite numerous previous enquiries, nothing at all was revealed. I read that Abbott kept pursuing Gillard because she had accused him of misogyny and he was so outraged he misused our public money and the instruments of state to punish her.

Then there was the slush fund Abbott established to send Pauline Hanson to jail briefly on trumped up charges. Don't get me started ......

I do look forward to the Royal Commissions into Liberal Party illegal fundraisings by numerous Liberal and former Liberal members of parliament, which have been proven but will never be prosecuted while Abbott is in power. Organised corruption and criminality in their first term - not good, not good at all. I won't even mention the many favours and paybacks to contributors. All in good time.
