So what you are saying is that because of an incident in history ( a quarter of a century ago) it is now ok to shoot down airliners full of people. All one needs to do is claim "well they did it first!"So Ray, you find it difficult to tell the difference between known terrorists and a bunch of tourists on an airliner?

Or are you truly suggesting Obama delights in having his people drawing up lists of nobodies and labels them as terrorists just so he can just blow them away?

I know Obama is a Democrat but surely that is a bridge too far!Abbott and Bishop could storm Russia single handedly and personally return the bodies and still you would criticise.

The Security Council has actually complimented them on their leadership. 

And as for using the UN, we pay enough for the privilege and it is seldom useful. Are you truly suggesting that when the opportunity comes we should pass it up?"Poorly armed people"? What are they killing Israeli soldiers with? Popcorn?

And how many rockets would they need to fire before you considered them to be well armed?

Even the Palestinian's actions refute your nonsense. What fool would throw rockets at their neighbour if they were only 'poorly armed'? But then again, maybe they like seeing their own citizens lying in graves.No,of course he never had WMD's. Those Kurds and Arabs in the marshes died of fright didn't they?

And when the neutralised stockpiles fell into ISIS hands recently that was all rubbish too wasn't it?

The "no WMD's brigade have done a good job of denying the reality but the facts keeps reasserting itself. Truth tends to do that.Yeh riiiiiight. And the Russians are powerless victims so they spirited away all the evidence from the crash sight just so they could keep everyone guessing?

Not sure where you dredged up all that tosh but it is overheating your brain.It IS most definitely illegal to enter Australia, or any other country, without valid identity papers and a visa. I dare you to go try it and prove me wrong. 

If there is one boat attempting to come every ten years you will still be carping "the boats haven't stopped!"

The absurdity of such claims strongly suggests that you have no interest in successful policy, just in attacking the other side. The more successful the strategy the more intense the attacks.

Keep at it. Good luck with it. Your basis for argument has been obvious all along.The greatest cause of extremism is poverty?

Could it be the greatest cause of poverty is extremism? 

Name one 'extreme' regime that has pulled its country out of poverty. Even those that are awash in petro dollars but have extreme regimes still keep parts of their populace in abject poverty.

On the other hand there are examples of countries that were prosperous but have been plunged into poverty by extreme leaders. Check out Zimbabwe's history!



Actually if you took the time to read and consider Luke 10:25-37, it is about a man taking responsibility for a victim and using his own resources to make a difference. Never did he blame anyone else or try to shift responsibility.

Please point out to me where the Good Samaritan, as he is called, demanded his fellow countrymen throw open their borders to all comers and then foot the bill just so that he the Samaritan, could feel good about it.

I have come across many Australians in my lifetime who exhibit the generosity of the Good Samaritan. I have also come across many, particularly on these pages who want everyone else to contribute to their particular feel good campaign why they themselves do little but carp and harangue.

Then of course there are those who seek to tap into government funding streams and use the victims (illegal immigrants) as their access point!

"Turning back boats is the one policy that has unambiguously achieved its objective of stemming the flow of boat people."

Thanks for that. Would all those that claimed here that it was Rudd reopening Manus Island that made the difference now admit they were wrong?

Furthermore, can all those who claimed that turning back the boats was impossible and would lead to conflict with Indonesia also admit they were wrong?

Then all those who ridiculed the Coalition's strategy could just humbly apologise.

After that there would probably be room to negotiate on an adjustment of the strategy in an environment of goodwill. But until the naysayers admit they were mislead and in turn misleading, the current rules need to stay. The slightest relaxation will only be used to attack and manipulate and it wouldn't be long before the flood resumed and the drowning's escalated.

Listening to those who have demonstrated success is always more productive than listening to the negative carpers who have been proved wrong again and again."smear, "Murdoch press", "Coalition's dirty laundry".......that's what passes for rational well argued reason around here?

Was there any substance to your post at all?If they had arrived by plane they would have had their identity papers with them and therefore been assessed rapidly.

Those arriving by boat do so for a reason - they dump their identity and can't be readily assessed. Why do they pay much more than a plane fare to come on an unseaworthy boat? They know they are ineligible and want to rort the system.

Then they are not 'held' in detention. They are free to leave and go home. Indeed they are paid to go home but choose to stay.


Then they threaten 'self harm'? The key is in the 'self'. No one forces them, they are simply trying to blackmail authorities into letting them in. Self harm, self consequences.Rachel, Bob Carr told us your claims of "90% of boat arrivals are refugees" are bunkum.

The last lot from Sri Lanka acknowledged that they weren't refugees and went home. That makes your "90%" look silly doesn't it?

"Give me Keating's high interest rates over the affordability of housing since the Howard government gave into the real estate industry"

You obviously weren't subject to them were you. They nearly took us out and many friends and acquaintances as well. In contrast, the Howard years were the most financially rewarding of our lives to date.

We lived through both eras and a man with experience is never at the mercy of the man with an argument.Parsimonious to the end.

Annabel Crabb could mutter from between clenched teeth "And one would not, perhaps, have expected Australia's 28th prime minister either to have attempted so much, or to have got it so right."

But you? I suppose we have to acknowledge your consistency.He does. The families of the bereaved are actually living or had you overlooked that point?
 
These families are truly victims and therefore need support. Unlike so many of the victims by choice, real and imaginary,  proposed on these pages as needing assistance.

One of the problems with the 'compassion' industry is everyone is seen as a victim and the real victims are overlooked in the rush to self promote as 'compassionate'.

At last Australians are able to once more stand proud of who we are without the imposition of some self flagellating guilt trip. Thank you PM!Who cares what you need or don't need? Australians don't need to be told by you what they need. They see and respect genuine concern and generosity of soul. We are a down to earth people and sick and tired of seeing people defined by politically correct over reactions to every minute gesture and phrase.

Your mealy mouthed attacks are tiresome to say the least.

The PM and Foreign Minister have responded with care and consideration. Their words have been firm but measured. They have received acclaim by other world leaders. You could take the time to consider and learn but I suspect that doesn't come naturally."Why is it when we don't have a Liberal government we are not afraid of terrorism?"

Maybe because Liberal governments learn from experience and have an interest in protecting the population?

Reviewing the previous six years it seems that governments of other persuasions only have an interest in staying in power and will do deals with whatever power broker is necessary to achieve that aim.Not worried, make a time and let me know so I can make sure I am home to welcome them.

You see, when you don't have anything to hide then you actually don't have anything to hide.There's a vast difference between giving your details to every git with an axe to grind on The Drum and agencies responsible for our safety.

The Wendy Bacon's of this world may want people's personal details to smear and slime but there is very little evidence that our security agencies have done anything like that since we got rid of Lionel Murphy.

He was a real worry, so was Conroy, but they are few and far between."what is considered legal and acceptable behaviour now can change very quickly"

That is true, Labor could get back into power and start imposing draconian legislation like section 18C and freedom of speech laws. I doubt very much that will happen within 2 years though so as long as we vote sensibly at the next election we should be fine.More garbage from the Greens.

Mining companies don't pay fuel excise because their vehicles are not used on public roads. The same goes for farmers (like my family), shippers and railroads.

Mining companies do pay tax. Contrary to what the Greens and Labor would have us all believe, on-shore minerals are owned by the States, not the Commonwealth. The States all levy royalties on what is mined and royalties are a very fair tax as they are a fixed percentage of the market value of the resources. If you think that miners aren't paying enough tax on what they mine, take it up with State governments. Miners then also pay company tax like every other company in Australia.

As for the federal budget being "brutal", well I guess it just goes to show how out of touch with reality the Greens are.
"If any nation other than Israel would murder and maim so many people we would have an agreement to have severe sanctions imposed."

Well actually that is blatantly false. Lebanon, Syria, Libya, Egypt, Iraq, Sudan, the Congo, Chad ........

The list goes on and on and on and the bleeding hearts don't really give a stuff.

If Hamas had their way then Palestine, Israel, Jordon would all descend into another Syria scenario. But I suppose as long as the killing was kept 'proportionate' everyone would be happy?Because the permanent members, Russia and China, would veto it. Effort wasted.Oh dear! Another fact free anti conservative rant. $1.2 billion certainly doesn't buy quality commentary these days.Wrong again Yank. Hockey said the economy was in good shape. The strength of the economy enabled us to avoid most of the impact of the GFC but the budget was still in the disaster zone with Labor massively increasing debt and never managing to find the surplus they claimed to have delivered on numerous occasions.

Those who confuse the economy with the budget are plentiful on these pages. Lack of knowledge and understanding fuels much of the ideological driven point scoring here.

A good analogy is someone on $1 million per year income who still maxes the credit card and has to borrow further to pay the interest charge. That is Australia's situation and until we realise spending must be reigned in the situation will just get worse.Actually Fact Checker did NOT dispute the $1 billion per month figure as claimed by Vince. In fact.....

"So "at the moment", the monthly interest bill on gross debt is over $1 billion. "

What Fact Checker disputed was whether all this debt was attributable to Labor.

Once again Labor supporters such as Vince twist and distort to try and attack the current government.The head of Treasury, the head of the Reserve Bank as well as numerous economists have testified to the structural problems with the budget.

Expert enough for me and far more 'expert' than the freelance wannabes on The Drum."But some issues demand a greater public presence than slick phrases and policy tailored to match, writes Jonathan Green"

Yeah sure, what we need is more one word slogans so everyone can understand. You know, things like FuelWatch, MySchool, GroceryChoice, Gonski, NALPLAN, Superclinics etc.

When Labor graduated to three word slogans, as in Cash for Clunkers, we know what happened then don't we!Of course they did. In fact Labor was so convinced that education was important that they forgot to fund their much vaunted Gonski plan in their budget. Yep, it was all on the never never!

Whether that was because they didn't want the deficit to be even worse than it already was or because of incompetence I guess we will never know but the fact remains, the Labor 'increase' in funding for education was no more than words and slogans." the impression is that Australia has stumbled unprepared into a conflict it doesn't care to understand."

The impression held by who? Some freelance writer with little qualification and even less experience?

This tendency for every person with a pen to consider themselves an expert and therefore someone whose opinion counts is becoming rather tedious. What is it that makes ignorance consider everyone else even more ignorant? Surely the $1.2 billion that we spend on the ABC each year can pay for some competent commentary.

The standard of the article is obvious from statements like "This raises a number of questions......" Anyone can raise questions and most commentators on these pages frequently do. But it seems that putting in the effort to find answers to those questions and then communicating those answers is a step too far for most.

The writer could have gone and spoken directly with the experienced and very competent AFP, military and DFAT people concerned with the operation but then, armed with the facts, he would better understand but most probably have less to criticise.
No, that's not true. Name one promise Julia Gillard kept?

She even broke her promise of loyalty to Kevin Rudd and admitted as much in her own book!

She denigrated Rudd on his 'border control' policy even though she was the architect of the policy.

Julia Gillard is one politician whose dishonesty knew no bounds.Oh dear whohasthefish, such passion such antagonism, but go check the ABC Fact Checker and then ponder just how far they have had to stretch credibility to find the 'lies' they supposedly have.

Every politician is accused of lies by someone. But when the ABC can't find anything more substantial then Abbott is doing rather well.

Meanwhile just ask those from the Labor side about Gillard's record. The series of books released since they lost government, the resignations speeches, the nastiness, hell they even turfed her and brought back Rudd because the majority of the caucus couldn't stand her.

And the story hasn't finished yet. Wait until she is called before the Royal Commission as a witness!

A deceitful woman who happened to become Australia's first female PM. What a tragedy!Um Treetop, the ABC Fact Checker has already stated that claims that health and education have been cut are bunkum.

Labor promised to make increases but never included those increases in their budget so that they wouldn't increase their already horrendous deficit. In other words those promises were NOT funded. Now that the Coalition is not delivering those increases you claim 'cuts to health, cuts to education'.

More than a long bow, just rubbish. When people have to go to those lengths to claim 'broken promises' then the Coalition is doing rather well in the keeping promises department.Sorry Reinhard but the ABC Fact Checker, nonetheless, shows that your claim is total bunkum.

Go check and have a look at just how far the Fact Checker had to go to find 'broken promises'! The promises that those who arrive illegally by boat will not be allowed to settle permanently in Australia is supposedly 'broken' by one person who stowed away on a cargo ship being granted asylum!

The ABC losing the foreign broadcasting contract is recorded as part of a 'broken promise'. What the? When did anyone promise that? A corrupted tender process in which the ABC was complicit and now no longer has to provide the service is somehow a funding cut? Yeh, right.

Frankly, the list of promises kept is rather impressive.

Meanwhile Labor is now blocking the savings they claimed to have made and had already included in their last budget! to reduce their devastating deficit!

So stop your stupid schoolyard taunts and start to deal in facts. That would make the debate far more sensible.
Go check the Fact Checker Reinhard. There have been NO cuts to education nor health.

Labor promised but never delivered, that is, it never funded its promises. They were just hot air!

So health and education have NOT been cut at all. In fact the Coalition is likely to fund health and education beyond anything Labor delivered depending on the outcome of negotiations with the states. It seems 'facts' are what you like to make them just so you can claim 'broken promises, broken promises'.

As I have said elsewhere, if that is what it takes to claim 'broken promises' then the Coalition is doing damn well!John, you may remember or probably not when Gillard invited Merkel to visit Australia as a show case on runing a country. "Merkel laughed". Do you really believe that Merkel would have made any comment relating to Abbotts handling? Are you really that brainwashed with your LNP views that you believe anything that is delievered by the Australian media?
What crucial promises has he delivered on? What about the promise of generating 1 Million additional jobs? You can't deliver if you have no forsight. Digging things out of the ground just doesn't cut it.Aaaaah! Whatever you are guilty of you turn and blame your opponent for exactly that!

Sadly it works on some. But I bet if Mal Colston were here today he would tell you straight just who the haters are. And of course Gough would then encourage everyone to "maintain the rage".

I doubt Abbott hates anyone. He certainly acts and speaks with generosity to most. Unlike many here out of whose mouths flows the most unmitigated hatred one is ever likely to see and the mouth betrays the heart every time.

Abbott has only married once, he has daughters who obviously care about him deeply, he is respected by those who have met him, he has generated good will where ever he has ventured on the world stage, he works well with his colleagues particularly Bishop and Hockey..........overall the evidence suggests he is a genuine and generous man.

I expect that is why he is hated so much by some, he is everything they are not and can never be! Jealousy is and always has been a curse.I think all politicians get the $270 / night Canberra allowance, so it's not just Hockey who taxpayers are funding. Which doesn't make the situation more palatable. And senior public servants would also be making inroads on the public purse.I think you neglected to factor in pre-GST sales tax, which renders your post null and void.So let's get down to it Jonathan, are you saying there is no risk of a terrorist attack in Australia? Or are you saying there is no increase in the risk over what it has been before now?

Because if you are not prepared to provide that assurance then your accusations of this being used for political purposes are just so much hot air.

Should there be a terrorist attack I have no doubt you will be one of the first to attack the government for not doing enough or whatever. But take responsibility for your false assurances? I doubt that very much.

And there is the core of the matter. It is so easy to prattle when you have no responsibility for the consequences isn't it?The poor obviously spend a greater proportion of their income on essentials. That is because they spend far less on non essentials.

But the claims of 'unfair' are just nonsensical. Put up any proposal and it can be claimed to be unfair.

The fact is the poor get a much greater percentage of their income given to them by the taxpayer than do the rich. Now that is obviously unfair and discriminatory.So people could make a wrong call on whether to visit the doctor or not? Of course people make the right call now every time without fail don't they. If this logic has any value then we should have mandatory doctor's visits for everyone at prescribed intervals, you know, just to prevent people making the wrong call.

And costs 'could' go up rather than down? Well let's try it then and see shall we? After all, they 'could' also go down or just stay the same.

This hysterical nonsense exposes what the opposition to the co-payment is all about. "The end to Medicare as we know it" is the cry. Well so what? The motor car meant the end of travel as people knew it, the internet meant the end of communication as we knew it and so it goes on.

An argument that says we need to stay in the past for the sake of it is no argument at all. Other medical systems use co-payments and those systems haven't collapsed why should ours?I find the responses to my original post quite fascinating. I live outside Australia where we work with the poor, truly poor. Recently one of our staff discovered she had aggressive cancer and only weeks to live. One month later she doesn't know a lot. The hospital has made four appointments for a biopsy and cancelled them all even though we had paid the $120 required.

The minimum wage here is $17 per day and even though she gets well above the minimum she could in no way afford $120.

She knows the prognosis because we gave up on the hospital and took her to a private doctor. For her at concessional rates it costs $28, much more than a days pay.

She is dying. Her four children will have to learn to survive with no government support, nothing. There is no dole, no medicare, no pension, no child support, no youthstart, no centrelink office.

The more I observe of modern day Australia I am glad I no longer live there. I find the faux outrage on behalf of 'the poor' quite sickening. The wealthiest people in the world masquerading as caring by demanding someone else do something for 'the poor' that they refuse to help themselves.

Your greed and pseudo righteousness is repulsive. The real poor would be stunned if they knew the extent of your largesse. Thankfully few have the resources or opportunity to ever findout. Rave on if it makes you feel better but remember those like our friend live and die without any of the benefits you take for granted while demanding even more.or restarting their nuclear power stations which would probably be more productive.I don't know that anyone has 'dreamed up' anything that is more effective. Trade sanctions have been part and parcel of history since time immemorial. Blocking or maintaining trade routes has been the reason for most standing navies throughout history.

The whole point of this article seems to be 'blame the US'. What for exactly I am not entirely sure and I don't think the author is either.How can a lender be 'predatory' in this context? A national government can hardly argue it was a victim of unscrupulous practices can it?

The government made the decision to borrow, it should be accountable for its debts. In reality Greenland's banks weren't too big too fail but the government is so the lenders have to cop it. So now they will pass the costs onto other borrowers and the cost of credit increases for everyone."Ill take the car."

A depreciating 'asset' in favour of a house and land? On this site I expect you are far from alone. One of the common threads that runs through those critical of lenders and those with money in general is an inability to understand the world of finance and the value of real assets.Given that your super fund is more than likely one of those 'investors' and you will take a hit as a result are you sure you want to run with that?

Maybe you do but most will scream blue murder when they find out their individual pocket is going to be impacted as a consequence. Just consider the response to the recent budget as an example!

Australia has become the land of "Someone has to pay, as long as it isn't me!"Is making the decision on which institutions to bail out according to political expediency such a bad thing?

In the final analysis it is an appeal to the ultimate arbiter, the voting public. If the government makes the right call it will have voter support. In other words, the voting public agree with the decision made on their behalf and are prepared to pay the price.

If the voting public disagree then it is the wrong call and the government of the day will pay the price at the ballot box. That is the beauty of democracy. It is not a perfect system but it is the best man has devised to date.

Rooms of bureaucrats pontificating over reams of rules may appeal to some but as Brussels and the EU demonstrate it takes a heavily tortured argument to claim it is an actual improvement.Yep, everyone is to blame apart from those who supplied the missiles and pulled the trigger! You are obviously uncomfortable with Russia being made to face up to the consequences of their actions. Why is that?"Dialogue is always the answer" to what question?

I wonder of the passengers on MH17 had tried your "dialogue" whether it would have made a difference?

Maybe if the three Israeli backpackers had tried your "dialogue" they wouldn't have been murdered?

Or if the 200 Nigerian school girls had tried your "dialogue" they wouldn't have been kidnapped, raped and whatever else?

How sickening does this 'let's just talk about it' rubbish need to get before you give it up? I suggest it is sickening enough already.Good old Ray. Every announcement has an underlying deceptive motive - except his of course!And the stealthy removal of the missile system back into Russia as well as the looting of the wreckage and the refusal to allow investigators in are all innocent mistakes too?The USA makes and markets AK47s now? And the US is somehow to blame for a country that, given the opportunity to embrace democracy, chooses civil war instead?

Please spare us such anti US diatribe. It is demeaning to both the promoter and those who give it consideration.

So you believe he has responded appropriately but of course he wouldn't have done that because it is the right thing to do would he.

Of course not, he "has seized on this opportunity to try to establish some statesman like qualities"!

And if he hadn't he would have been vilified. I hope you judge your own actions by the same yardstick you apply to others!" ?The adoption of this resolution is a decisive step by the Security Council,?? Ms Bishop said.

Other Security Council members, including the US, the UK and France, applauded Australia?s leadership on the disaster."

Seems those with responsibility, such as members of the Security Council, disagree with you. I bet you don't let that change your perspective though. I expect your hatred of Abbott runs too deep to allow for a rational perspective, let alone give credit where credit is due.
Vietnam? Where have you been for the last 25 years? Go and check the Russian influence today and consider that in light of the significant US involvement.

And Iraq has greater respect for Russia? Where is that evidenced in any way?

Of course you are probably right with Syria and what a basket case that country is and likely to remain for the next 50 years or more.

The results of Russian and US influence tend to speak for themselves don't they? Germany, Italy and Japan were all vanquished by the US, UK and their allies. Today they are part of a strong alliance and all independent, developed and prosperous.

Those countries vanquished and made subservient to the former Soviet Union were all basket cases, not necessarily independent, and now only slowly emerging from the dark ages.

You should carefully consider such facts before denigrating the USA and its western allies!And the ABC would report it as a justified reaction to the Cold War!It wouldn't matter what Abbott did, you would disagree. So what's new?

Quite petty really.How many planes would he have to shoot down before you changed your tune? Is there an upper limit?

Or would it be different if your kids were on one?It wouldn't matter what evidence was presented you would claim it was not 'credible'. Go on, prove me wrong, what evidence would it take?

A confession from Putin himself that he fired the missile? Even then I expect you would proclaim he was forced into it or some such tripe.

One thing this issue has revealed is the underlying ideology of yourself and a few other regular posters here. Eye opening really and now so much that has gone before makes more sense.If CO2 emissions are as simple as polluting the air, land and water or not Yank, then please stop.

You pollute simply by breathing and seem to be doing little about it.

Don't you care about your grand children?So are you implying that Yank's hyperventilating is even worse than breathing? Good point!

And that is exactly what the realists are saying. 4 or 5 degrees of warming may be a problem but the virtually zero warming over 17 years means the problem is definitely NOT what we were told and probably not a problem at all.

Time to check the data and reconsider the models. The theory is not holding up under the weight of real world observations.Abbott is a man who keeps his promises no less, even those that are difficult.Compartmentalise? No. Prioritise? Absolutely.

The three big ones were stop the boats, scrap the tax and dump the MRRT.

Two done, one underway.

Those he is accused of breaking are based on twists and distortions. An increase in fuel excise of 1c per litre is a "new tax"? Yeh right!

The so called cuts to hospital funding and education have been acknowledged as bunkum by none other than the ABC's Fact Checker. Cutting what Labor promised but never delivered is just dealing with Labor's residual spin. No different from acknowledging that the surplus that Swan claimed to have delivered was actually a massive deficit. One of his many massive deficits actually.The IPCC has acknowledged that the world has not warmed significantly in 17 years and there is no observable increase in the intensity nor frequency of extreme weather events.

So where do they fit into your paradigm? 'Flat earthers'? 'Deniers'?

Rather than denying that there has been no warming for the last 17 years you could quote the actual figures as stated in IPCC 5 Report. Why don't you?As you said Clark, as you said.

"the rate of warming over the past 15 years (1998-2012; 0.05 [-0.05 to 0.15] degC per decade), which begins with a strong El Nino, is smaller than the rate calculated since 1951 (1951-2012; 0.12 [0.08 to 0.14] degC per decade)."

That is insignificant (less than the uncertainty) and what's more, way less than ALL the modelled increases.

And in that same period CO2 concentration in the atmosphere increased by how much? The correlation is what exactly?

Just accept the reality, the 'science' is NOT settled and the theory is in tatters.Malcolm, go read IPCC 5 and then come back and tell us why they lied!

Screaming "It's a lie, it's a lie......" doesn't change the facts.

It is precisely such nonsense that has given 'climate change' a bad name and led in part to the polarisation. A reasoned argument needs to consider the facts.A blot on the planet? You are more than a little susceptible to meaningless hysteria are you not?

Anyway, according to you the planet will soon be dead so that blot is meaningless. As meaningless as such nonsense comments as yours that have served to alienate so many in relation to 'climate change' and even 'science'.

The damage done by the 'believers' such as Flannery, Mann, Gore and their followers is yet to be fully appreciated but will become more and more apparent over time. 

'Science' has become a synonym for 'spin' if not 'outright lies'."Banks just do not like and never have liked lending money for anything other than a sure thing"

But of course you do don't you! I can never understand why those who pillory banks don't put up their own cash and take the risks they belittle banks for not taking.

Won't risk your own cash but expect banks to risk the cash of their shareholders. And before you rabbit on about how much money banks have to risk have you ever considered that is because they understand risk more than you do?Direct Action is very much a continuation and extension of natural resource management programs funded by Labor under the badge Caring for Country.

I notice that you didn't complain about those environmental initiatives. Why are those activities so unwelcome now that they are proposed to be extended by a Coalition government?I happen to have seen much more of Labor's funding to natural resource management than you realise and expecting implementers to do more with less is not unrealistic.

That was Labor's underlying problem - even when they had a good idea they were extremely poor implementers.Wotif is a rather 'big corporation'. One that gave the Greens the largest political donation in Australia's history.

How is it that the Coalition is supposedly serving the best interests of big corporations but the Greens are not? The Coalition hasn't used their service to elicit any donation as large as what the Greens received.

The funds will be directed very much through groups like Landcare.

You didn't com[plain when Labor directed millions through such groups. Why is a similar program against your sensitivities now? You had years to highlight the existing deficiencies and didn't seem to have the time nor inclination.The market mechanism that rewards these values is life itself.

What I find fascinating is the number of people who ridicule biblical wisdom that are unhappy with life.

Of course there wouldn't be a cause and effect correlation would there?You lump a lot of disparate organisations and individuals together under the words 'the church'.

I see numerous individuals going about their daily lives helping others with no access to the wealth or tax schemes you mention motivated by a god given love for their fellow man.

Meanwhile I see numerous 'NGO's that are little more than tax shelters masquerading as charities.

That is the problem with generalisations, they tend to be inaccurate and distort reality.Life is about profit. Or do you truly expect us to believe you are more than happy to work for a loss? No doubt you are also happy to sell your house for more than you paid and are over the moon when your super fund diminishes rather than grows.

Much of the criticism of capitalism is fuelled by greed and envy. "They have more than me so they are bad!"

I couldn't care less how much Gina Rinehart has, nor Rupert Murdoch, nor Clive Palmer. I wouldn't swap with them for anything.

From my perspective the base emotions of fear and greed promote the rancour in debate as you have just demonstrated.Actually Pancake, my work is all about the good of society. Voluntarily applying myself to help others far less fortunate than me is what I do.

So you see you are so quick to categorise and criticise without any basis of fact. That is exactly what destroys debate, judgemental assessments of others motives from a basis of ignorance.

Capitalism is how the world operates. The successful alternative is real Christianity. Putting others first. But I choose to live that way without demanding others do likewise.

And I am more than happy to challenge those here who demand everyone else pay to provide their own perceived ideal. 
And how do you ensure everyone is operating in 'good faith'?

When we are driven by base emotion, fear or greed, there is seldom 'good faith'.I think a useful starting position for sensible debate is to accept that the vast majority of people, and politicians are people, want the same thing - a better life for all.

The disagreement is around the mechanisms for achieving that goal. The 'Left' tend to see constraints being imposed from on high to ensure equity for all. The 'Right' cherish individual freedom with a safety net for the least able.

The destruction in dialogue has come from the tendency to label one side or the other as 'evil', rather than different. 

Once there were accepted absolutes that defined 'good' and 'evil' but in a secular society these have been discarded and everything is relative making the terms easy to apply to anybody depending on the basis of your morality.

Vilification and deification are the most commonly applied strategies against those who see a different way forward.Thanks for demonstrating the point the author is making. Some just can't engage in a sensible debate without trying to ridicule or vilify.

For some reason the Drum seems to encourage such behaviour at taxpayers expense! Hardly a productive use of taxpayers funds.The despised carbon tax is gone. Tony Abbott has demonstrated yet again he does in fact keep his promises. The ABC offers up a puff piece based around a kids horror story.

The ABC would not survive without massive government funding. Too few would pay for such tosh.I pay for the privilege so may as well use it.Tosh, more than anything else, needs some flavour.

Besides, most posters on here need help to come to grips with reality."he controls the PUP senators and they vote in accordance with his instructions"

I don't expect even Palmer is confident of that!Has there been a reduction to the renewable energy target?

When was that?

And how many of those 10,000 jobs are non productive 'green jobs' carried on by public servants?

Replace them with 10,000 productive jobs and the country would benefit.So not the much quoted 97% but 99% of scientists now agree? Geesh, I can't wait until it gets to 102% or 105%. Just think how much more credibility that will provide."Yes, yet another piece bagging the Rudd/Gillard governments for their incompetence."

That just proves the article is based on fact. His opinions are valid as well."just seems there is no hope I could cry."

Go right ahead if it makes you feel better. That's what the 'carbon tax' was all about, feeling better. So now you can replace it with a good cry and we don't have to pay a cent.

See, it has been a beneficial change after all!Even under the IPCC's most dramatic 'scenarios' which it now admits are not close to reality, you wouldn't see a difference in fifty years.

So don't stress. If we experience the same increase in intensity and frequency of severe weather events over the next fifty years that we have seen to date (NIL according to the IPCC) you won't notice any 'change'.IPCC AR5 notes the lack of warming since 1998: 

THE rate of warming over the past 15 years (1998-2012) (is) 0.05 (-0.05 to +0.15)C per decade) which is smaller than the rate calculated since 1951 (1951-2012) (of) 0.12 (0.08 to 0.14)C per decade.

Understand?
Maybe but I prefer to listen to the facts as they are:

IPCC AR5 states:

THE rate of warming over the past 15 years (1998-2012) (is) 0.05 (-0.05 to +0.15)C per decade) which is smaller than the rate calculated since 1951 (1951-2012) (of) 0.12 (0.08 to 0.14)C per decade.
The whole 'climate change' saga has been massive fear mongering based on faulty computer models.

I'm not fearful of the future because of the repeal of this tax, so where's the 'fear mongering'?Don't see many of them around here. Do you?It seems to be very popular with people who don't have a firm grip on reality. I think I'll give it a miss thanks.20th century thinking?

People throughout history have made sacrifices to appease 'the gods' they believed were going to destroy the earth.

The 'climate change' myth is as old as the human race. There's nothing new under the sun, it has all happened before and will again.Yeah, that billion dollars a month we pay in interest on Labor's debt is all imaginary.

Those Treasury officials that keep transferring the cash need to be sacked for dreaming!No, Kevin was good and would never lie. But if Tony Abbott said exactly the same thing then he would be lying because he is evil.

That's how it works around here. Difficult to understand from a rational perspective but stay with it, it's like mould and grows on you.You claimed that the 'carbon tax' had never increased prices!

Now you are expecting them to come down?

You can't have it both ways. If it didn't increase prices then it was ineffectual and was just a burden for no benefit. If it did increase prices then they will come down.Oh, three word slogans like "March in March"?Name one other scheme that put a higher price on carbon then. PaulH is spot on.And they will all run about demanding that the 'carbon tax' be returned?

Ok, I will wait expectantly.They would have to recruit externally and they couldn't be sure of the political leanings of the applicants.

Nuh, have to stick with what they have got.Or "Climate Change Cult loses impact"?

We could go on for ever.You mean derided by all those governments that put an even higher price on carbon? Which ones are they exactly?

Or do you mean China that has a zero dollar price on carbon? They are too busy laughing up their sleeves at the gullibility of warmists to be deriding anyone.The IPCC's latest report stated that there was no observable increase in the intensity or severity of weather events.

So where are you getting your information?You seem so adept at being able to predict what would have happened but you didn't foresee today!

Of course you know Gillard didn't plan to intentionally deceive the voters but Abbott absolutely did.

What shabby posturing! In fact you know nothing of the sort and are just making stuff up.

Meanwhile the world hasn't warmed for 17 years. 


THE rate of warming over the past 15 years (1998-2012) (is) 0.05 (-0.05 to +0.15)C per decade) which is smaller than the rate calculated since 1951 (1951-2012) (of) 0.12 (0.08 to 0.14)C per decade. IPCC


Hey, maybe the carbon tax actually worked and now that the warming has stopped we don't need it anymore?Outsource them!!!!Here we go. More slur and innuendo. Abbott's statements were specifically in relation to forming minority government.

Of course you could always post the full quote and prove me wrong but I bet you don't. For Abbott to even suggest he wouldn't negotiate with minor parties would be absurd but that doesn't stop you.

You distort and twist to suit your nasty purpose. One day we will see some leftist posters on this site demonstrate integrity, one day, maybe.I am surprised anyone here has issues with the rules for financial advisors. After the last few weeks I had come to believe that most posters on the Drum were so poor that they couldn't afford $7 to visit a doctor. Now we are being told that they are scared of being ripped off by financial advisors.

Here's a tip. If you truly are battling like you lot like to suggest then you have no use for a financial advisor anyway. Not enough cash to invest and obviously unteachable.

Better off to just leave well enough alone and continue on the financial management path that you believe best. That way you will still have something to moan about.Yank, less than 1% of China's energy comes from renewables. You are just believing fairy stories because they suit your perspective.

China has built more coal generating capacity in the last ten years than it has built renewable generating capacity. For the Chinese 'climate change' is an economic opportunity. Selling solar panels of varying qualities to gullible western purchasers is a valuable niche market and China has capitalised on it.

China feeds its entire population off something like 17% of its land mass. There are vast tracts of inhospitable land available for solar and wind power schemes. Have you noticed them building any? They have more sense.This rather pathetic personal denigration is rather plentiful on this site.

Abbott was also a Rhodes Scholar and has better academic qualifications than you I bet. But of course you don't hold up your personal history so that we can evaluate the quality of your opinion do you!No warming for 17 years is not a theory. It is the result of empirical measurement and has been accepted by none other than the IPCC.

If you can't tell the difference between theory and measured results then I suggest your opinion on anything as complex as 'climate change' is rather wide of the mark.

Basic statistical knowledge would tell you how you can have two "hottest years" in a series and still have no overall warming. But basic statistical knowledge is not a strong point among believers!Doesn't matter what 'the science' says when the evidence is that the world hasn't warmed in  17 - 18 years.

The 'science' is obviously wrong. Sensible people, and in fact scientists, change their view to correlate with the evidence.

Those with an agenda change the evidence to suit their view."But because it isn't a policy that the current Government agrees with, it is a reform no more, "

How about you try "Because it isn't a policy most Australians agree with and wanted introduced"

That would be much more accurate. Reporting isn't that difficult when you start with the facts.Morally corrupt? According to whose morals?

Accusations like that are just denigration and attempt to circumvent the rule of law. 

Did you acknowledge Thompson was 'morally corrupt', even after he was found guilty?When caught with your hand in the cookie jar the best defence is "But they all do it sir!"

That is Labor's strategy and it is support by the apologists.

Obeid, McDonald and Tripodi lead the pack with tens, maybe hundreds of millions flowing from their corruption. But to Quentin it is only a"a maate's culture".
Yep, if the sun failed to rise tomorrow it would be Abbott's fault. You just know it has to be don't you.

Hatred does that to people, messes with their minds that it.It doesn't matter if it is a ridiculous thing to say or not. The meme here is "Blame Abbott!"

The haters don't seem to realise that when they have to go to such extreme lengths to make up some reason for the blame then Abbott must be doing fine really.
After six years of dysfunctional government I would suggest we are recovering well. It is early days yet and there is plenty of time for the government to build its credibility as the results of its policies flow through.

The downside is that for each day that goes by the debt and therefore the interest bill increases. But the last six years dictated that no one could fix that in a hurry. It is simply too large.

We reap what we sow after all.So tell me Yank, if a dysfunctional government can stop the boats, establish free trade agreements with our key trading partners, keep unemployment under the level forecast by Labor, and save us going to war with Indonesia as predicted by Rudd, what the hell were Labor doing for the last six years?

And don't forget, none other than Julia Gillard has admitted to the Rudd government being dysfunctional. In fact she claims that is why she kicked him out.

You denied it the whole time though. Your record on these matters tends to indicate you have no understanding of what the word 'dysfunctional' actually means!Treated Parliament with contempt? The boats keep coming? The FTA's praised by business are useless?

Just goes to show doesn't it that you aren't interested in outcomes. The garbage you sprout will stay the same no matter what.

Thankfully, most Australians are different and before anyone sprouts "but the polls" just stop and recall what you were all saying before the last election.

The 'unelectable' Abbott proved the naysayers wrong then and I expect will do so again. But still the rabid haters will carry on.I think you are right. Abbott is playing this well, holding his line and taking the short term political pain on the chin.

It won't be long and Palmer will unravel in spectacular fashion. The Chinese aren't going to go away and I expect the $12 mil is only a small portion of what they now know has been ripped off by Palmer.

Finally the ABC starts to ask some questions on The 7.30 Report and Palmer refuses to answer and walks out. The real question has to be "Why has it taken the ABC so long?"

But just watch. Those who cheer Palmer now will soon be condemning Abbott every time PUP Senators support a government initiative for "Accepting a tainted vote". Such is the fickle condemnation of those who choose to hate with the ferocity evidenced by Abbott's enemies.

Always beware the haters for one day they will find reason to turn their hate on you!There is already evidence that Palmer will shortly be involved in defending himself against charges of criminality. You may not be aware because those who rely on the ABC for news have been sheltered from the facts.

Then will you be crying "Show him some respect?" I expect if his position causes pain to Abbott you will because for you that is as far as it goes. A petty partisan perspective based on nothing more than base emotion - hate.

Australians deserve better and in funding the ABC pay for better. Now that Palmer has walked out of an ABC interview it will be interesting to see the next move.

I look forward to seeing your response when Palmer demands the cessation of funding for the ABC. It will only take a couple of actual interviews rather than puff pieces for that demand to come because that is the way Palmer operates.

Flirt with him and his ilk at your peril.No one treated them thus. It was claimed they had done it themselves! That is 'self harm' by definition.

And now that those claims have been shown to be false what is your response? You look pretty foolish!

Furthermore seeing these people are still trying to come could it be your assessment is totally distorted? They obviously believe Australia is much different to what you paint it.

Remember when the majority here claimed the boats couldn't be stopped? "It is impossible" was the claim.

Now proven comprehensively wrong the faux outrage is palpable.

Meanwhile this government continues the processing system implemented by the Labor government. Nothing wrong with it when introduced but now? Oh, so evil!

Of course Bob Carr told us the truth prior to the last election - these people are simply economic rent seekers trying to jump the queue. He reiterated that fact this week. Once a darling of the left his comments are now dutifully ignored. He did tend to spoil the argument didn't he?Not enough compassion to actually offer something yourself though. Just enough to demand someone else do something about it and further demand someone else other than you foot the bill.

That is not compassion. It is simply self righteous sympathy designed to make yourself feel good at no real cost.

All rather pathetic really.The absurdly nasty nature of your comment with no basis in fact whatsoever tends to indicate that the pro asylum seeker crowd has lost the debate.

I can understand your extreme disappointment that this competent government has succeeded in doing exactly what it promised despite the cries of "impossible" from the refugee advocates. But at least you could try and restrict your comments to something approaching rational.

Returning economic refugees to Sri Lanka was a process undertaken by the Labor government. Were they wanting to torpedo boats as well?

What useful purpose does your hysterical, and quite false, accusation really serve?The Neoliberal Revolution?

Oh dear, statements like that remind me of the yellow hordes sweeping down from the north that inspired the White Australia policy.

What is it with progressives and their need to conjure up make believe bogey men in an effort to instil fear in the populace?How does negative gearing 'help pay off an investment'?

All negative gearing does is allow the loss made on a rental property to be tax deductible.

This is similar to any other asset class other than the private home. The costs incurred in generating the income are tax deductible. A private home does not generate an income so there is no eligibility for negative gearing.

Furthermore, profits generated when the rental home are sold are subject to capital gains tax. So no one is escaping tax at all.

It seems that the strongest critics of negative gearing have no understanding of what it actually entails and no initiative to find out.Curious Party, as Rodrigo has pointed out you do not understand Capital Gains Tax anymore than you understand Negative Gearing. CGT is indeed paid at the marginal rate.

Your post strongly demonstrates my point that most people who criticise negative gearing seem to have little understanding of what they are on about.

Rather they are simply jealous of others who have used their understanding to enhance their economic standing through a mechanism available to all who are careful with their cash.Stella, are you telling us no one ever 'rorts' the system? If not then why the faux outrage?

It would be a nice gesture if you were to show some compassion for those Australians who are faced with paying the ever increasing cost of supporting those who claim 'disability'. They have no choice whatsoever, they just have to keep coughing up the cash like it or not.

I expect most Australians have no issue with supporting those with a genuine disability. I certainly don't. But we all live in communities and many of us know of those who are not genuine. If the rorts are stopped then there will be more cash for those who need it.No one supports me. In fact we spend our time supporting others out of what we have. I paid taxes for many years, now because we live offshore we do not get even the basic family benefits for children. Nothing whatsoever.

So you are wrong.

The people with disabilities we support get nothing, zero, zip, from government and little from anyone else.

You need to be thankful for what you have rather than demand what you haven't got. The vast majority of this world have far less than you do, disabled or not.Godbothered, save your pathetic bile for someone who cares - about what you think that is.

This society has not 'evolved' from any of your so called philosophies. it has not yet had a chance to reach Australia's level of wealth. But the people are still people.

I choose to spend my time helping them while you choose to spit and fume and denigrate.

The disabled I choose to help appreciate it but they don't give a damn what you think.The leap from 'stopping rorts' to 'demonising the majority' is rather extreme don't you think? I suggest if you stop and consider what is being proposed thoughtfully then 'demonising' is a long way from the truth.Rorting doesn't need to be systemic before it needs to be stopped. Or do you believe breakins in your street need to be systemic before the police need to bother?Show us where 'everyone' is being punished. Just extreme accusations with absolutely no basis in fact.

Faux outrage at the victimisation of some fictitious 'they' is all the fashion these days it seems. It obviously makes people feel as if they are doing something valuable and helps them avoid the need of actually getting out and doing something real for their fellow man."Seem to imply...." is a very long bow don't you think?

So it is ok to be outraged by someone "seeming to imply...."?

If all those who are so outraged by what someone is "seeming to imply...." spent their time getting out and giving a hand to someone with a disability, what a difference that would make.
 
Believe me, it takes more effort than self righteous indignation though.Meanwhile none other than the ABC Fact Checker has found that Labor is indeed blocking $5 billion of its own savings measures.

Obstructionist? Blockers? Destructive? That simple act alone proves Labor holds the mantle.Mr Green criticised Rudd and Gillard governments? When was that exactly?

But the time is past. I am now wanting to see Mr Green's explanation of why Ms Gillard has been called before the Royal Commission when he told us the whole issue was a beatup.

No doubt another juvenile conspiracy theory will be forthcoming.Green had his chance during the last six years. Labor has now outed itself in relation to the incredible depth of dysfunction. It was even worse than we thought and that has been confirmed by no less than Swan and Gillard.  Please point to one article by Green during those dreary years that acknowledged that dreadful reality?

He is a commentator with zero credibility.

And there is even worse to come. The Royal Commission has now called the former PM to give evidence despite the denials of Green and his associates that there was anything untoward. The media has a crucial role to play in a vibrant democracy and our media has let us down badly.No, you are wrong again. Paul Kelly has been consistent in highlighting the Labor disaster and has now been proven correct by none other than the confessions of Labor MPs. That is why he is so disliked on this site.Ummm, Julia Gillard used the word 'dysfunctional' in her references to government under Rudd!

That was not her most scathing criticism though. She claimed it was one of the reasons she knifed him.

Credibility Yank? You need to read beyond the Drum.I am self employed Yank, have been for many years. I rely on my own resources rather than bleating for someone else to pay my way and commit my time to helping those less fortunate than I am. You?Obstructive? Yet Rudd and Gillard claimed as a hallmark of success that they passed a record amount of legislation!

Cognitive dissonance seems to be in fashion here.That is exactly the stupidity of the logic repeated here again and again. Almost 50% of the population prefer the current government. Over 40% on a primary vote basis compared to the low 30's for the ALP.

But still stupidity says the LNP are doing nothing right.

Why are you so afraid of debate that you need to be fed confirmatory articles without exception? Are you actually wary that confronting reality could result in you changing your position?Oh please! The current polls show more than 70% are in favour of toughening our laws in response to terrorism. Go and check the ABC's online polls. They are invariably the opposite.

The ABC represents the opinions of the majority of its readership and its viewing/listening figures demonstrate that that is a very small proportion of the Australian public. 

Just another taxpayer funded minority group screaming very loudly for more at everyone else's expense."LNP employees"? Wrong again. I am self employed providing assistance to those who are unable to help themselves, the truly poor, as distinct from those on the Drum that claim to be poor while languishing on all Australia has to offer.A useful positive contribution those like Green could make would be to report the facts openly and fearlessly instead of barracking for a side.

How many times was the dysfunction of the Labor governments denied by the likes of the author? Now we find that, as a result of no less than nine books by Labor luminaries themselves, that the extent of the dysfunction was even worse than we believed! The critics were wrong only in that they were less critical than was warranted.

Where was Jonathan Green all those years? Blind? Willfully blind? Or woefully inadequate?

The Abbott opposition of the time was derided as being 'destructive'. But what we now find is that the animosities and incompetence within the Labor party was the destructive element. Abbott, correctly, simply tried to point it out.

What we are seeing now is petty 'tit for tat' politics by Labor and their supporters. But they won't prevail. The public are realising the truth and if they have any doubts they just need to digest a tome by Wayne Swan of Julia Gillard. That will open their eyes to the reality of the last six years of Labor malfunction.

Meanwhile Green tries to tar everyone with the Labor brush. No, those Labor years were exceptional, depressing but exceptional. Time will demonstrate that a steady hand and sensible policies will win through despite the wilful detractors and Australia will rise from the ashes.



Can someone name a prosperous equitable culture that has been built from an atheistic viewpoint?

You know, so we can use it as a role model. North Korea comes to mind but........."all prosperous and equitable cultures have been built from an atheistic viewpoint "

That is patently untrue. The legal systems and social service structures of the western world all emerged from a Christian base. Other cultures are built on a Buddhist, Hindu, Muslim or whatever base. The great civilisations of world history have all been built on a religious base.

None of significance has been built on a basis of atheism. The short flirtation with communism crashed and burned after causing untold death and misery. 

Trash religion all you want but the fact is the vast majority of the world's population claim adherence to a religion other than atheism.  The loud screams of a very tiny minority of believers in nothing but self are irrelevant.

The reason is obvious. Atheism offers nothing. No reason, no purpose, no future, no hope. All those believing in a god or god's may be wrong but if they are and the atheists are correct then there is no down side to their belief anyway.

Atheists are like door to door salesmen selling an imaginary  product that provides no benefits, just hopelessness as we wander toward an eternal emptiness.A rather ridiculous leap of logic. I justified nothing. Simply pointed out that what we have, the good and the bad, has come from a religious base.

Atheism provides no reason to change because in the end nothing matters anyway.Yes, and all the advances of civilisation have been as a result of those you call 'dreamers'!

The explorers, the inventors, the philosophers, the reformers, all people who continued to dream when others ridiculed them.

That is exactly the impact of religion, it inspires hope. And hope sustains people in times of tragedy and deprivation. Solzhenitsyn survived the gulag. Dawkins rails from a basis of affluent privilege and focusses his bile on those less fortunate than him, currently babies with Downes syndrome.

Atheism relies on a unique combination of accidents to create progress that all ends in nothingness. No matter how much you dream about that, it is uninspiring!Confucianism underpins modern China. Communism was an aberration for a short period of time but at an enormous cost in lives.

Now modern China has more Christians than any other country in the world.Can you name the cultures that are not built on a 'religious' base? It would be good to assess some of those to see if they are actually more successful.

They should be easily identified as they won't have the trademarks of religious influence down through the ages. No history of hospitals, hospices, schools run by churches. No Red Cross or Red Crescent, or St john's Ambulance. Very few charities at all in fact. No laws based on grace or mercy. 

Easy really so let us have your list.Not 'according to Chris Berg' at all. That is just the standard strategy of shooting the messenger that has been employed through the last seven years.

Now, compliments of 'memoirs' from Labor icons and their minions, we find that the Labor years were actually even more dysfunctional than the staunchest critics of the time highlighted. Yet those critics were howled down by the same 'according to them' garbage.

Just read and weep mate. What little credibility Labor had after their six disaster plagued years in power is being steadily trashed by none other than Labor themselves. Only fools believe now that they had even a remote understanding of what they were doing and the messengers have been shown to have been right all along.If the government just borrowed enough to pay the basic wage to those without a job then they could claim everyone was employed and there was zero unemployment.

How wonderful, saving everyone's jobs like that.

In essence that is what Labor tried to do. Borrowed massively to be able to claim they 'saved jobs'. In reality people will be unemployed for a long time to come as the economy labours under the massive debt that Labor created in an effort to 'be seen to be doing something'.

'Being seen to be doing something' sums up the Labor years! Just a pity that fashionable pretence is so damned expensive.So many Labor myths have been dispelled in recent weeks by the 'tell all' books of self focussed Labor icons that it is hard to know which are the 'great Labor myths' anymore.

The more important question is "What Labor narrative was not a myth' and the answer is "None!"The AMA's approach doesn't address the problem Yank. It saves very little cash. Same with Labor. They haven't yet acknowledged they caused the problems by running up massive debts. They have totally trashed each other in a flurry of books, finally acknowledging what all thinking people knew, the Labor government was riven with disloyalty and totally dysfunctional. Their icon, Kevin Rudd, has been ridiculed and denigrated by Labor's own. But still Labor won't accept the consequences of six long years of pathetic governance.

How can you deal with such a dishonest bunch of illusionists?

No, Abbott's strategy is correct. The problem is growing, it needs to be solved, more and more people are realising the dire consequences of Labor's legacy. Eventually the demands from the public will ensure Labor recants and takes responsibility.

The longer it takes the more dire the consequences but that is life. All Australians need to learn that lesson and be much more considered in how they vote in future."How about instead of this they actually include the value of the family home in the pension asset test, so we aren't subsidising well off seniors giving their children massive inheritances?"


Great idea: you could just spend your money all your life and never buy a house; go on world trips and the like; and be much better off than the poor sucker next door who saved and paid for his house.

Yes, isn't socialism wonderful?

Freddie: Why not? What's good for the goose is good for the gander. Middle-class people pay, in absolute terms, more money than the 'poorer' groups, and should be entitled to get some of it back. At present, the system (not only for pensions, but for other things like divorce) is massively skewed against people who save. If you want to argue socialism, the 'assets test' should factor in accrued earnings, not savings, but at present it discriminates against people who save.

So, yes, middle-class socialism is legal and justified. And great!

Freddie: Your response is totally flawed in that it fails to address the following issue: If Persons A and B both accrue $X over their working lifetime before they retire, and person A spends his or her money on luxury goods and overseas trips, whereas Person B saves to buy a house and forgoes the overseas trips etc, then why should Person B be effectively subsidised less than Person A on retirement? And, if Person B wills his house to his children, well good on him! Whereas, under your highly inequitable scenario, Person A ends up effectively being subsidised by the taxpayer (and probably his or her children). 

If the government wants to adopt the policy you suggest (as it appears to be doing), then I have every right to live it up (as Person A did) and get what I'm lawfully entitled to.

And, yes Craig, I'm fully aware of the philosophical implications of welfare, so I don't need to be reminded. But, to use the example, if Persons A and B over their lifetime pay the same amount of tax, yet Person A effectively benefits more than Person B because he/she didn't save, then as far as I'm concerned that's unfair and even ridiculous.

I've advised both my (middle class) children about this, and I trust that their savings doesn't go against them in the long run.

Happy socialism, comrades!!"Your argument is the equivalent of saying that if person A is working and person B is not working, then it's unfair to give person B the dole without also giving person A the dole."

Err, no, that's not what I said. Yet again you misconstrue what I wrote.

I made it clear that over their lifetimes, Persons A and B accrued the same income and paid the same taxes. You incorrectly assumed that I was arguing something else.

As I said in an earlier post, the 'fairest' method of distributing welfare is to consider the total amount earned over the working lifetime of the individual, regardless of savings. Under this scenario, people who save would essentially be 'rewarded'. Now, if Person B is on the dole (and hence earns less over his or her lifetime than A), then he or she would be 'entitled' to more welfare than A.

Your other assertions are also, in the main, incorrect. But, if someone goes into all the implications of not saving over those of saving, then they have every legal right to do what is best for them. You can call it 'leeching' (emotive word), whereas it is not much different to legally setting options to reduce income tax.

And, furthermore, if Person B (the non-saver) is able to live at a reasonable level, it shouldn't matter how much Person A makes, or leaves to his or her children. 

 

To clarify:

"Under this scenario, people who save would essentially be 'rewarded'" 

should be

Under this scenario, people who saved would not be penalised over those who didn't.Freddie: I don't have time to refute everything you say. Broadly, I understand the concept of welfare, and am not opposed to it, as you mistakenly seem to assume. I simply don't think it's fair to effectively penalise someone who saves and buys a house over someone who earns the same money over a working lifetime and spends it.

It's you who has the entitlement mentality, not me. You seem particularly envious of people who are able to save; and go even further by somehow arguing their children should also be penalised. I sat through a whole day of talks by superannuation people, and came away thinking, why bother salary sacrificing, saving etc. You'd be better off spending it.

And furthermore, welfare isn't free: it's basically taxpayers' money spent on their behalf by the government. Most of what you have stated are just broad generalisations without specifically addressing the concept of equal amounts earned over working lives, with one person saving and the other spending it.Freddie: now you bring in cognitive dissonance to bolster your already weak arguments. The original issue was with making the household home an asset, not about superannuation etc., so once again you change the subject. I have no qualms with your other suggestions here, but you still haven't argued a solid case against using accrued earnings as a basis for welfare rather than what the person has at the time (thereby effectively penalising those who save)."What they give to their children does matter if they are expecting every other taxpayer to subsidise their lifestyle whilst owning considerable assets.". 

In many (most?) cases, these people have effectively subsidised the less well-off for much of their working lives through paying not only higher rates of tax but, in absolute terms, more tax. 

Basically, to put it in a nutshell, I think your original post of basing welfare on whether or not someone owns a home is not only unfair but idiotic. My suggestion of basing it on accrued earnings over a person's working life is much fairer. And while arguments like yours hold sway, I see nothing wrong in legally saving or spending to minimise losing welfare.

Good night comrade!I understand. But if you saved and were essentially penalised for doing so over a neighbour who accrued the same earnings over his or her lifetime, and they got more welfare than you, I'd regard the system as unfair.He didn't misunderstand anything and what he said was accurate. He obviously should have used a three word slogan so the critics here  could understand but somehow I don't think they have any interest in the facts.No, why do you need to distort? Your version of 'said basically' is just your willful interpretation to try and win an argument.

The need to distort tends to indicate the facts don't suit you.You nailed it John. Those here who claim to be 'poor' are simply wallowing in self pity.

The world is full of truly poor and the vast majority of them don't have access to electricity, let alone the internet so they can post on a blog. The greed I see displayed on these pages disgusts me.Hockey never said "poor people don't drive cars". That is just another example of journalists with an agenda verballing.

Greg Jericho, if your argument is so strong why can't you quote accurately? Even the ABC should adhere to the basics of good journalism and state the facts.We could ask Wayne Swan back. His recent book tends to indicate that that would bring hilarity into the tax arena. That would take the edge off having to cough up. Hell, he may even manage to find those 'four years of surpluses' that he lost someplace.

But seriously until Swan's legacy is acknowledged and dealt with Labor will have no credibility whatsoever in the financial management arena so all this dreaming about Shorten or Abbott is just nonsensical."When you take a loan out you don't all of a sudden go "Oh no! I need to pay back all this money immidietly!"."

No indeed, but only an idiot believes he never has to pay it back at all! Wayne Swan thought claiming he had begun to pay it back while taking further loans of steadily increasing amounts was all that was needed.

He is an economic joke and those claiming otherwise just demonstrate their own economic ignorance.
Actually if you take time to read outside the ABC and particularly overseas, the opposite is the case. Well done PM Abbott!

Meanwhile the Greens acclaim a deal in which China does nothing until 2030. That's right, absolutely nothing! And Obama does nothing but promise with full knowledge that he also can do nothing. What a great green con!

Contrary to your ridiculous assertions Abbott is outstanding on the world stage with agreements with Japan, South Korea and China in the bag. Now the PM of India is paying an historic visit and will likely announce significant progress there. These world leaders are keen to deal with Abbott it seems. No doubt they are stupid as well?

The 'hopeless government' meme is increasingly being shown up as empty rhetoric, just meaningless words to try and criticise where no substance is available.Did you watch Paul Keating on Lateline (ABC) last night? He basically said the story was more a beat up than a real threat. And that's on the ABC, so it must be right!The ratio  (not correlation) of military spending to per head of population is but one measure of 'militarism'. There would need to be a baseline for most countries independent of population. For example, if Taiwan say bought 4 destroyers to defend itself against mainland China (hypothetically) it might have a greater ratio of spending to population, but its fleet would be still small, even though it's cost:population ratio was greater than mainland China's. It could be argued that it is less militaristic than China, since it purchased only the 'basic' requirement for defence.
Of course it's a rort. Asylum seekers seek out Australia because its a good life. Better than what they endure in any Middle eastern country. Enough is enough.Actually there is very little in the 'agreement' at all beyond airy fairy motherhood statements.

This is just a last ditch effort by Obama wanting to be seen as  doing something and China playing along while committing to nothing.The findings so far support the review. That's the fact. Not all unions are bad, but the ones mentioned so far are clearly acting corruptly and with links to criminals in some cases. You surely can't be advocating turning a blind eye? On top of that if we don't do something to make our labour markets and work places more competitive and in reality that means more flexible work arrangements or better technology which likely means redundancies, then there is a bleak future for my kids in any case in Australia.  Unions need to realise this. I would rather my kids were employed at a lesser rate and a lower standard of living than being unemployed and no hope. The latter is what is more likely to lead to social breakdown, violence, turmoil and countries falling apartI grew up in McLaren Vale. Grape picking in the old blocks that can't be mechanically harvested is mainly done by new immigrants and backpackers because in my experience, most Australians feel the work is beneath them or doesn't pay well enough.

During my high school and uni years, I made plenty of money during holidays by working in the vineyards picking in summer and pruning and trellising during winter.

Yes it was tough work compared to the sitting on my rump all day in an air conditioned office that I do now (and get paid a lot more for), but it was nice being outside in the fresh air (you could say I'm a bit "Clancy of the Overflow"-like) and meeting people from all over the world and because I worked rather than dawdling along I made good coin.

I had friends come along and give it a go when they heard how much I earned, but almost all of them gave it away within a day or two. "It's too hot/cold", "my hands hurt", "they don't pay enough"... lazy bastards. Virtually all of them were stuck in dead-end jobs by the time they were 30 and live miserable lives of mediocrity.

The few mates who did stick it out were like me and went on to better themselves and their lot in life. Today we're all over the world working highly-paid professional jobs. It didn't come to us on a plate, we worked hard to get where we are and we work hard to stay where we are because there's billions of people who are hungry for what we've got.
Patent nonsense.

I know plenty of people who have made great money working in the mines and related industries. I even envy some of them because I spent years studying computer science at university while good friends who dropped out of high school were making more money then than I am today.

As for indebtedness from education, what a load of hogwash. The only people who complain about such nonsense are those who refuse to work hard. I worked hard while studying (working in vineyards picking and pruning during holidays while also cleaning a butcher's shop every week) and rather than pissing it up against the wall, saved it away and graduated without a HECS debt.

The jobs are there, all you have to do is make the effort, which seems to beyond a lot of people who inhabit these forums. They seem to expect the government to hand everything to them on a silver plate rather than taking any sort of responsibility for their lot in life.
Arrogant or not, what is it that persuades atheists that they must ridicule someone's religion when they have nothing, absolutely nothing to offer as a replacement?

Is it that believing that there is no purpose, no hope, no future and everything is the product of sequential accidents is so noble and righteous?

Considering that there is absolutely no reward for an atheist whatsoever, why on earth are they totally unable to allow others to enjoy the fruits of their beliefs? I found atheism to be the black hole of religions, totally dependent on eternal nothingness and continually endeavoring to devour everything else that challenged it.But two hands working on the wrong thing create far more chaos than 1000 hands clasped in prayer!

Mother Theresa (and thousands like her) have accomplished much more than many of those who ridicule the prayer she indulged in daily. I wonder why that is?You obviously have no understanding of who she was and pay her insufficient respect to listen to what she had to say.

You should listen to 'good' people more maybe?I never did talk to imaginary friends. I pray though!

Such trite responses as yours deny the stature and achievements of those great men and women who have gone before us who openly prayed.

Go consider a list of those who have achieved far more than you have ever attempted and then let us know why it is that you feel such a need to ridicule and denigrate those who have contributed so much to what you have today.Go on then, list the atheists. And while doing it don't forget to list those on whose shoulders they stand!Those great men and women would disagree with you. But of course they wouldn't know would they?

Besides, if they were able to do such things 'despite' their religion, what is holding you back?It staggers me that so many people think they are that important that governments would focus their energy on prying into their petty lives.
A "pause in boat arrivals"?

Wow! That truly is desperation by a denialist. Tell us then, how long does a pause have to be before you will accept that the boats have actually been stopped?

I suppose given that an election is two years away and Labor could possibly (but unlikely) scrape back in and restart the flood of boats and the deaths at sea this justifies the description of "a pause"."But as they say in the commercial world, no one ever cut their way to greatness, "

Whoever says that? What tosh! Any number of companies that had grown fat and lazy have been reformed by a season of cost cutting and a refocussing on their core business.

When even the basic foundations of articles like this are such rubbish the opinions expressed with regard to solutions can't be expected to be anything more than absurd pipe dreams."Give them more time, and you can be sure the commission will turn up even more evidence of wrongdoing that is ultimately embarrassing to Labor by extension."

So the Royal Commission is not a 'witchunt' after all? Thanks for that admission. Can we now see some detailed reporting of the outcomes by the ABC? The silence to date has been embarrassing, for the ABC that is."Agreed they probably will turn up more corruption. "

Another admission the RC is not a 'witchunt' afterall. Thankyou. Your 'look over there' arguments are irrelevant.Liberals fronting the ICAC are being exposed for breaching a law that only exists in NSW relating to property developers donating to political parties. None have been declared corrupt nor referred to the DPP as yet. Yes, if they are found guilty they need to face the consequences but those indiscretions pale into insignificance when compared to the blatant corruption of government processes and the hundreds of millions of dollars rorted by Eddie Obeid, Joe Tripodi, Ian McDonald and other Labor Ministers.

You may defend who you want but the obvious lack of proportion suggests your arguments are nothing more than partisan barracking.The evidence to the ICAC indicates the Liberals received donations from property developers. There is no evidence I am aware of that they then received favorable treatment even if that was their intention.

If donations automatically prompt favorable treatment then how much more do the millions of dollars donated to Labor by unions? What's more, we now know that those unions bribed, blackmailed, frauded and extorted the funds that were then passed onto Labor. Developers donated their own cash, unions used crime to collect the cash they then donated.

We also know that criminal gangs and prominent underworld identities were involved in that process.

So try to keep a level head. What the RC into union governance has revealed is that large quantities of donations forwarded to Labor are the obvious proceeds of organised crime. Yes, the Liberals in NSW must abide by the law but no evidence to date has suggested mass funding for the Liberals from organised crime.

So far that is the domain of the Labor party with links to a former national President (Williamson), a former PM (Gillard) and a current leader of the Opposition (Shorten). Very serious stuff indeed.

Expecting something in return for a donation is NOT criminal. Receiving something you are not entitled to in return definitely is! 

The evidence to the RC into Union Governance is damning. The funds were sourced through blatantly criminal activity in some cases using the activities of known criminal gangs. Those funds were then donated in return for extensive favours.

What the RC has uncovered suggests corruption on an industrial scale and those who are the essence of Labor appear to have been involved at all levels.

The RC into unions has revealed funding of Labor by organised crime on a massive scale. That is offset "by the good they do"?

Moral relevance write large! I suppose you don't mind getting burgled as long as the burglar donates a percentage to his local charity then?On the one hand though - if we stop the racing industry then most if not all racing horses will be killed. Horses cost money to house and feed after all. How do you decide if stopping the industry and killing healthy horses is better than suffering to some animals involved in the industry? (honest question)

On the other hand, I think what percentage of these animals would have suffered more and died earlier and less pleasantly in the wild?

On yet a third hand (where did that one come from?) we've also got a certain group of lobbyists that actively try to stop all research, commercial and in some cases even domestic ownership and use of animals - and while I can sympathize with them not wanting animals killed for sport, knowledge and the pursuit of it must be above this in the case of non-human animals.

Also some of these types have been guilty of murder of hard working lab techs, doctors and scientists in other countries. If we're going to outlaw Islamic groups that supposedly 'justify terrorism even if they do claim or imply they disagree with their actions' then maybe we should be consistent and outlaw anyone affiliated with any of these groups? PETA and associates for one example.On the other hand the Kurds under the PKK have been a pack of Marxist terrorists who launched many vicious attacks against innocent civilians.

But given what you're saying, should we be playing nice and looking to defend IS interests then? I mean they think they've got a legitimate right to start their own nation don't they? And they are using the same sort of tactics as the Kurds have... or for that matter the same sort of tactics used to found Israel; so why don't we befriend them too?

Fact is that we're doing Turkey a disservice here, and they've been far better allies than the Kurds have ever been (including forgiving Australia for invading them and even spending their money to tend our war graves) - the PKK used to be an enemy of the western world up until we've decided that they're just great guys now. Funny that we're now supporting and arming communist terrorists to fight the fundamentalist terrorists that we supported and armed to fight the communists... seems to me that this cycle won't end until we learn that we're terrible at policing the world.

But still - let's unrelentingly and impatiently demand that Turkey go take risks we won't to fight a problem of our making against their own domestic interests and the will of half the population.

And we wonder why so many people world wide aren't exactly happy with foreign policy as dictated by the US?@the yank

And it's their job to enforce America's decision of who and what is right in the region? At the cost of their own country's blood, treasure and stability?

America bloody well armed and trained the elite core of this group, like so many others, and provided arms through various ill conceived means. It also destabilized Iraq and allowed a power vacuum this murderous group of scum is rapidly filling.

But they should stem the tide? Really? In order to protect a bunch of cut throat Marxist murderers who have turned aside all attempts at peaceful resolution or dialogue? Now it's up to Turkey to fix it all while we claim credit for dropping random bombs cause we're well and truly out of ideas?

Turkey may well be just looking after Turkey, sure enough, but at least they don't pretend otherwise. The US regularly props up the worst criminals and dictators or tears down democratic governments based on what suits the prevalent domestic politics. It has created this situation and now everyone in the world should follow them to war, without a clear plan for what comes after and with the flimsiest of 'they just the bad guys!' type justification based on half truths and spin... again?

At what point do we say enough - you guys are too damn stupid to run the world, you just cause hundreds of thousands of deaths - far more than Saddam or Al Qaeda or IS could dream of. You are NOT they good guys here. Just leave the region alone for a while because you are not helping and never have. 

Yes IS is terrible but we're looking at a cycle of endless war and loss that we're simply stoking into a worse and worse situation blindly and based on the patronizing idea that this is a problem that Europe and America can fix. It isn't and we should instead focus on helping those we can rather than trying to tell the rest of the world what's what.

Also frankly we can't afford this stupidity much longer if nothing else and it's making the other powerful nations smell blood in the water. Hence HK and the Ukraine.@DaveM

Really?

This comes off as naive as those thinking we can just shake hands with IS and be done.

Turkey was supposed to let a group of terrorists who have launched a deadly campaign far worse than IS within their borders just pass through assuming that they'll just fight IS? Are you mad?

Fact is that what we're doing makes the world ungovernable - we try to kick into 'regime change' (remember those hopeful days?) mode every time someone does something we deem a crime against humanity without context or long term planning, just a 24 hour media cycle driven, outrage addicted, poll based push against whoever the latest "villains" are declared to be.

Further at the rate we're depleting freedoms and justifying the unjustifiable what makes you think we wouldn't act 100 percent as Turkey has (or as Iraq under Saddam did for that matter) were we faced with actual terrorists in our midst rather than a vaguely defined, shadowy, plastic sword wielding straw man version that we see here? 

We've already given up on the basic principle of habeas corpus over mere refugees - Turkey hasn't done that explicitly as we have and they have hugely more per capita - let alone the concessions we're making based on nonsense. The US was certainly willing to torture, murder and kill civillians... how are we so intrinsically better that we presume to get on our moral high horse and tell the rest of the world how to act or not act?

Hell - we break the law and spy on our allies, ones we'd only just "rescued" from the abuse of being ruled simply to scam them out of their gas and oil reserves.

If Turkey is turning against the West, we've given them good reason - we expect them to join our fight, indeed to do the hard, 'boots on the ground' fighting to protect our half thought interests but we've not bothered to listen to their interests in not splitting their country in two through violent civil war. Indeed we arm their enemies, expect them to jump when called and don't care what they want. Why should they be on our side at this point?

PS PKK never renounced Marxism, it's just played that aspect of their agenda down. Don't make things up - their current, murderous leader who is serving life in jail, is a full blown Stalinist. Also they've continued a campaign of violence well into the late 2000's at least and that's obvious from even the most cursory of looks.

PPS If we're gonna look to who we share values with, maybe one of those values should be being a reliable friend and ally, and maybe we should think those values out beyond half assed thought bubbles that change every five years as to who is now the supposed enemy of all mankind  and the ultimate evil justifying anything that we happen to do as 'collateral damage' (also that we've armed and trained for the last 10, again).@DaveM

Thank you too! Wasn't sure my comments were showing up for awhile there but glad they did and to get your well argued response.

1. Letting thousands of terrorists through to fight Assad? That was our policy too until very recently though, was it not? We supported those fighting against Assad until we decided that they were the bad guys too.

2. Turkey has let thousands of Kurdish refugees in and saved many, many lives doing so - it's not like they've been blind to the plight of the innocent, but why would they let back in people who have been nothing but trouble and who murdered many civilians in? A group they've, after decades of murderous attacks against Turkey, only just managed to get to largely leave their soil I might add. There is no way on earth we'd allow such a thing - hell we feel our sovereignty is threatened by small numbers of people on leaky boats.

3. Exactly as I said - Abdullah Ocalan is simply using weasel words. His "Democratic Confederalism" is, if you look at the details, just communism by another name. They are talking about a 'state less system' and using the 'power of the people' in all fields.  It's a rather suspicious conversion too - once you got to jail and can see an opportunity to get Western support you make your views more palatable. Change of heart? I think not. 

4. They haven't given up on violent action either - 2012 was in fact one of their bloodiest years of terrorist attacks against Turkey, the worst since 1999. Nearly six hundred people killed by them that year. They did declare a ceasefire in 2013 and promised to leave Turkey but reneged and constantly threatened a return to violence and now have abandoned the peace process because Turkey didn't go to war on their behalf. 

5. The PKK have frequently used banned, untargeted weapons such as mines that kill indiscriminately. They have supported much of their operations through drug smuggling and sales.

6. The PKK has a LONG history of betraying those who make deals with it - Iran provided them with weapons, they used those weapons to attack Iran; Syria gave them safe haven, they attacked Syria; their leader is KGB-FSB trained and Russia has helped them avoid being listed by the UN (rather than just most western and regional powers) as terrorists and now they've had a 'change of heart' about their ties with Moscow; Turkey made deals with them to leave their borders, they've failed to do so and resumed violence; Saddam supported them at one stage, they turned on him with a vengeance; they've also played both sides of the field in terms of the US, fighting both coalition troops and their enemies to gain additional arms; they claim to represent all Kurds but have viciously targeted those who don't support them, murdering and kidnapping Kurdish tribal leaders; they have also rebranded themselves before in 2003 and claimed to be 'peaceful' while continuing to carry out terroNot sure I'll get any sort of proper right of reply here. But thanks for the comments.

PS Actually the PKK has at no point renounced Marxism, in fact the current leader is a jailed terrorist who preaches a Stalinist philosophy to this day.

Also even a cursory check reveals that this group was killing civilians well into the 2000's at the earliest possible date of their 'redemption'.

If Turkey is turning away from the west, perhaps we should at some point ask why? (by which I mean not demonizing but actually trying to understand, I know Big Brother is on but still this is important if we are going to bomb people)Sure pal - even though Turkey repeatedly kept telling us this would happen if we removed Saddam and left a power vacuum and that it would also lead to a Kurdish break away state led by terrorists - it's all their fault.

I mean otherwise the alternative would be that it is the fault of all the neo-conservative idiots that actually led us into this thing including by lying to us. You know the ones that tortured people and indeed armed these psychotic idiots (or IS or ISIS or ISIL depending on who you ask) in the first place to attack the communists and who are now all set on arming communist terrorists (PKK) to attack the aforementioned psychotic idiots.

Please, please, please... at some point stop trying to dig us out of the hole you've dug us all into."This summary from the #WISH (Women In Solidarity with Hijabis) campaign is self-reported, and thus tricky to verify. But even if half right, it's telling."

So you take an unverified list of incidents including someone removing a headress 'out of fear' and use this as testimony of a problem. You do realise that those incidents come from a populace of 25 million people don't you? That's 13 incidents from 25,000,000 people!

How many other everyday Australians experienced similar stupidity from their fellow citizens in the same time period with no specific headress anywhere in sight?

The hysterical stupidity in this article beggars belief.Nothing can 'make you feel alive'. Your feelings are your responsibility. Some feel happy with little, others feel aggrieved despite having much.

Thinking promotes emotions and emotions lead to actions. Take the responsibility of changing your thinking and you will find your emotions follow in due course.

The country frequently billed as 'the happiest place on earth' has very few of the assets and advantages you take for granted. Why is that?

I accept that offer on the proviso that those who voted for Labor pay the cost of their six year rampage. 

Have we got a deal? I expect there will be droves of Australians lining up to sign on.Could cost half a billion per year? Small bickies indeed. Labor's debt is costing us $1 billion per MONTH in interest payments and Labor is blocking every avenue available to reducing the expense.

Gosh, Rudd and Gillard regularly spilled $500 million between the first and second readings of a policy document! How much was NBN touted to cost as compared to the monolithic debacle eventually foisted upon us? Pink Batts finished way over budget and is still costing us in the form of compensation. The NDIS wasn't even costed, the figure didn't matter to Labor.

Furthermore these 'costings' of war efforts typically include wages, fuel etc. all expenditure that we would be paying anyway, war or no war and so are inflated.

Everything costs, it is priorities that count and thankfully we are no longer blowing away billions on daily thought bubbles designed to monopolise the daily news cycle. So $500 million is not a big deal.No matter how far we 'move on'  we will carry Labor's debt and its consequences with us for at least a generation. Getting over this Labor debacle will not be as easy as muttering 'move on'!You can't clear a generational debt in 12 months. It will be with us for many years to come.

Besides, Gillard and Rudd are still arguing over who to blame. They were there and haven't sorted out the responsibility yet!$500 million is not 'spending like a drunk'. Please nominate one Labor program on which they ONLY wasted $500 million?

Maybe 'Cash for Clunkers' as it was dropped before being implemented. Hell, not even one Labor budget forecast came within $500 million of reality!!!!!!!!!!!!!I was raised on a strict diet of the ABC. The radio intro to 'THE NEWS' will be stuck in my head until I pass on. But now? I couldn't be bothered listening to such selectively politicised pap.

Your audience has walked away and still you will not reconsider. So be it. You are writing the once proud ABC's obituary.I suggest your understanding of the word 'adult' could be the problem. At home and abroad many are acknowledging the quality of this government. Even Beasley and Obama's administration!

You may pine for the daily dose of chaos dished up by Labor to ease your boredom but that doesn't justify denigrating our current government. Adults they most certainly are and competent adults as well.

Get used to it, I expect they will be around for a long time to come. But if you want nonsensical titillation you can still get it. Tanya Plibersek, supposedly ardent feminist, has trouble differentiating between man's swimming attire freely worn and that imposed symbol of women's subjugation, a burqa.

I am sure if you contemplate that contradiction for a while you will have a better understanding of just who are the real adults!It seems that Barrie, after years of watching Labor's chaos in silence, is certain all political parties must be the same even though he can't find the evidence.

Consequently, he would just love to peer behind closed doors!

Well Barrie, there was no need to do anything of the sort during Labor's period in office. Their internal machinations were there in our face every day as Rudd fought Gillard and Gillard fought Rudd while Swan searched for his surplus and Conroy threatened the red undies punishment to all and sundry. It was chaos writ large yet you were strangely reluctant to comment on it. Why was that?

Now that you are unable to find similar chaos under this government you feel compelled to assure us 'it must be there'.

Is that desperation or something worse?

I did a bit of research once on the similarities from one generation to the next and found some very prominent dysfunctions cascading through my family tree.

It was uncanny how adults, scarred in their childhood seemingly reached out to similar partners to those that caused the wounds in the first place and the cycle repeated. Generation after generation.........

I found a way to break the cycle in my family and consequently I don't believe anyone needs to be a victim of their ancestry. Sadly, many aren't prepared to embrace the solution though.
