"I would happily see it ditched until we can...stop people using it as a derogatory term."
People use terms as pejoratives because they can see reason for doing so, Prof. The only way to stop people using terms as pejoratives is to remove any reason they have for seeing the terms as pejorative. In the case of feminism that would mean changing how many people who call themselves feminists behave. Without the change in behaviour the pejorative use will continue.Misogynist is probably not the most overused and incorrectly used word in modern times, FI, but it very well may be toward the top of the list. Screams of things like "Misogynist!" and "Racist!" are used as knee jerk reactions by people with no real argument to make which is why, along with "Nazi!" and "Fascist!", they are seen as admissions that the users have nothing left to say worth hearing.You are making a common mistake, Comrade. A risk of death does not make someone a refugee. Someone is only a refugee if the risk of death comes from a threat based on their race, religion, nationality, political opinion or membership in a social group. If they are at risk of death because of war or criminal activity (their own or someone else's) then they do not fall under the Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees or the accepted definition of what a refugee is. If someone is repatriated and are killed because of war or criminal activity (their own or someone else's) then that is not proof that they were a refugee and that they had a valid claim to asylum. If all it took for someone to be a refugee and to have a valid claim to asylum was a risk of death from war or criminal activity or famine or natural disaster or anything else then at least three billion people would be refugees with valid claims for asylum.Have you seen what taking more refugees than they can handle is doing to the countries around Syria, LK? Why would Australia want to follow their example? 
Whether someone wants a country to take them in is not and should not be the determining factor as to if a country takes them in.So we fly them in and then what, ingenuous? The main problem with asylum seekers who arrive as IMAs is that, once their claims are rejected, we cannot get rid of them. Their own countries will not take them back because they already have too many people and do not particularly care about most of them. This would not change if they instead flew in. What would happen is that Australia would be forced to take people who are demonstrably not refugees on the grounds that we could not ever deport them and so could not keep them in immigration detention, under the High Court's ruling in S4/2014.Indonesia does not want asylum seekers going to Indonesia, Bazza, so the chances of them participating in such a scheme are limited. Indonesia wants a situation in which the asylum seekers there leave and no new ones arrive. Your scheme would not give them that.The government and Parliament do not answer to or work for the UN, the UNHCR, human rights lawyers, the International Human Rights commission or the International Community at large, gerard. They work for and answer to the Australian people.The government indeed does not work for or answer to you, Helvi, or the minority who demand what you demand and I never stated that it did. The government answers to and works for the people as a whole and that means for the majority of the electorate as determined via the ballot box.When and if a minority opinion, in this case Helvi's minority opinion, becomes the majority opinion then it will be making policy, Comrade. Not before. 
The "dictatorship of the majority" argument is always trotted out whenever the minority does not get the electoral and resulting policy result it wants. It is and always was an unviable argument because democracy is designed so that the majority gets what it wants within, of course, the basic constitutional framework.The UN doesn't "come after" countries because the UN cannot "come after" countries, Arthur. The UN system does not work that way. If you wish to discuss the system we have in place we can, but to do so you would first have to know how it works.If we do not agree with the Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees then we in fact do not have to obey it, whohasthefish. The Convention is unenforced on an international level and is only law in Australia where Australian legislation makes it law and even then only to the extent that the legislation makes it law. 
The idea that any country "reap(s) the benefits of being recognised as a good international humanitarian citizen" is a delusion advanced by people who fail to understand how things really work. Countries that deal with Australia do so because it is in their interests to deal with Australia, not because of some airy fairy notion of "good international humanitarian citizenship". If such a notion was applicable then no country would deal with China or Saudi Arabia, but they do.The International Courts have no say at all about what is and what is not law in Australia, whohasthefish, one of the many advantages of being sovereign. The ultimate power when it comes to the matter of what is law in Australia lies with the High Court of Australia and in all relevant cases, including QAAH, the 2004 case about the legal application and legal status of the Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees, the High Court has ruled as I wrote. This is not a matter of semantics, it is a matter of basic legal fact. 
Ultimately this discussion is about the law. You can be as disgusted as you like, but as long as the government is obeying the laws as they stand then the only way to stop them doing what they want is to convince the voters to vote then out and not to vote in anyone else who holds their policies.The problem is one of providing an incentive, barsnax. If we were to adopt the plan in question (a limit on detention of one month and then housing in the Tasmanian community) it would result in people reacting to the incentive and recommencing their coming. It would not save the country money. The argument that it would is a false economy. The processing of each individual asylum seeker would be cheaper, but the vastly increased number of asylum seekers would make the total cost higher.They can come, barsnax, providing and only providing that they come via the lawful system, as put in place by the Migration Act 1958 and validated by over 20 years of High Court rulings. If they come via an unlawful avenue (once again- 20 years of High Court rulings going all the way back to Chu) then they are unwelcome.Australian law does not say that they are allowed to come in the circumstances under which they were coming, Peter, in fact it explicitly says the opposite. The Migration Act 1958 lays out the legal controls on entry into Australia. Section 228B of that Act reads as follows:  
"Circumstances in which a non-citizen has no lawful right to come to Australia 
             (1)  For the purposes of this Subdivision, a non-citizen has, at a particular time, no lawful right to come to Australia if, at that time: 
             (a)  the non-citizen does not hold a visa that is in effect; and 
             (b)  the non-citizen is not covered by an exception referred to in subsection 42(2) or (2A); and 
             (c)  the non-citizen is not permitted by regulations under subsection 42(3) to travel to Australia without a visa that is in effect. 

             (2)  To avoid doubt, a reference in subsection (1) to a non-citizen includes a reference to a non-citizen seeking protection or asylum (however described), whether or not Australia has, or may have, protection obligations in respect of the non-citizen: 
             (a)  under the Refugees Convention as amended by the Refugees Protocol; or 
             (b)  for any other reason."

As you can read for yourself the law not only does not allow the legal right to come to Australia for the purposes of claiming asylum unless the other criteria are met, but specifically rules out the existence of such a right. Section 228B(2) was specifically put into the Migration Act 1958 by the Howard government so that there could be no chance that the courts could find such a right within the law.Look closer at the history of the Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees, Dave. When it was first drafted and formed in 1951 only refugees created "As a result of events occurring before 1 January 1951" were covered. When the 1967 Protocol Relating to the Status of Refugees was created it opened the coverage up to refugees created by events after 1951 specifically so that it would deal with refugees from behind the Iron Curtain.The question is, Helvi, whether Australian law should be based on whether or not you or LawrieM feel ashamed. You are the only ones who seem to think that it should.The measures you list were supported by and are supported by the majority of the electorate, Ann. What Helvi wants is not. Whether the minority that Helvi is a part of is ashamed of the current policies and practices is irrelevant if the majority does not share their shame or their goals.It raises no such questions, AE. This is how the Westminster system of governance works. Legislation is not fixed in stone. The Law of the Medes and Persians has never applied here. If the Parliament sees fit to change the legislation, for whatever reason it sees fit, then it can do so. The system was designed this way so that the law can be changed when circumstances change.What has any of that got to do with the case in question or the proposed amendment to the Migration Act 1958, Steve_C? Australia did not employ SZSCA to do anything. SZSCA worked as a subcontractor driving a truck for various NGOs. NGOs are Non-Governmental Organisations, with the emphasis on the Non. Those who worked for Australia- for the Department of Defence, the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade, AusAID or the Australian Federal Police- in Afghanistan are already being brought to Australia under the Locally Engaged Employees in Afghanistan visa policy, with hundreds already here.Even if the government withdrew from the Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees the Convention would still apply as long as it is in the Migration Act 1958, AS. Once removed from the Migration Act 1958 it would not matter whether we are still signatories to the Convention as the Convention would no longer be law in Australia.Your analogy is flawed, Bazza. In your analogy, if it is to have anything in common with the actual situation in question, Ben would be demanding to move in with the police. If a murderer was after Ben then in the vast majority of cases he would be free of the threat if he moved to another city in Australia. He would not need to move to Kabul or Berlin or somewhere else on the other side of the planet.
As for the moving bit, these people travelled all the way to Australia, a vastly different culture in a far away land. Why would it be more of an imposition to expect them to move to a different city in their own country?In 2012 SZSCA claimed asylum on the basis that his job put him at risk of violence and we are now being told that Australia has to accept him as a refugee because it would be "unreasonable" for him to move elsewhere in Afghanistan and get another job (but, apparently, it was not "unreasonable" to move to the other side of the planet). In 2013 an Iraqi taxi driver was given a refugee visa on the grounds that he was at risk from his lover's husband and that it was "unreasonable" for him to move elsewhere in Iraq (but, again, not to move to the other side of the planet) to avoid the husband. These cases are emblematic of a system that has been bent well out of how it was designed to be. Australia's humanitarian system was never designed to be used as a migration pathway for everyone at any kind of risk. If the proposed amendment to the Migration Act 1958 is necessary to stop these kinds of decisions then the proposed amendment should be passed.The question that Australia needs to deal with is not whether a foreign national in another country thinks that they have no option but to try their luck, but is the question of what our reaction to them doing it is, Ann. If Australians want Australia to be the country to which everyone on the planet can move to if they get into trouble of any and all descriptions then we can be that country, but, as the electorate has made abundantly clear, most Australians do not want Australia to be that country.Those immigrants are allowed in because they have demonstrated that they have skills which they can and must (they cannot get welfare payments for their first two years in Australia) use to support themselves, Ann. Why should we let in unskilled people just because we let in skilled ones?The Zimbabweans who wanted to come to Australia when the Mugabe government was targeting them were both white and Christian, Judy. Australia accepted exactly zero of them as refugees. The refugees from Kosovo that the Howard government took in 1999 were white and they, 114 families in all, were deported to Kosovo against their wills when their TPVs were withdrawn in 2000. Many of the Iraqi asylum seekers in immigration detention are Christians and they are treated no differently than anyone else there. The claim that Australia would accept asylum seekers if they were white and/or Christian falls apart as soon as it meets reality.Although references to travel paperwork go all the way back to the Bible and passports (coming from words used to describe passing through a gate) existed in Medieval Europe to authorise entry into towns and cities the first real passport that existed in the modern understanding of passports is believed to have been introduced by Henry the Fifth in the early 15th century, at least as early as 1414, some 600 years ago. While history is fun, what does the question have to do with the topic under discussion? Regardless of when passports were invented they do exist now.As we have discussed previously, Marilyn, as long as the actions have not been ruled unlawful by the High Court, either on the grounds of being unconstitutional or on the grounds of being in contravention of legislation, then the government is breaching no laws by implementing them. If the Parliament changes the legislation to allow the actions then, again, the government is breaching no laws by applying them.
Retroactively applied laws are perfectly legal in Australia. Australia is one of only two countries that can retroactively apply laws, the other being the UK.Persecution has a definition, Latin. For the purposes of the Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees persecution means a threat to the person's life or liberty, the significant physical harassment of the person, significant economic hardship that threatens the person's capacity to subsist, the denial of access to basic services, where the denial threatens the person's capacity to subsist and the denial of capacity to earn a livelihood of any kind, where the denial threatens the person's capacity to subsist. It does not mean being uncomfortable with government rhetoric.The White Australia Policy was intended to keep non-white people from emigrating to Australia. Currently the majority of people emigrating to Australia are not white. How exactly, SteveF, is the White Australia Policy back?It's called sarcasm, Bozo.A party "disavowing basic principles in the interests of winning votes" or democracy, as we like to call it. A political party can have whatever policies it likes, but it will not get elected to government if it does not have policies and practices that the voters like. Any party that wants to be elected to government needs to adopt policies that the voters like and abandon the policies that the voters do not like. Minor parties like the Greens or Family First can be as ideologically pure as they like, but it will not result in them forming government.It is not and cannot be about eliminating harm, Ann, because there is no way to eliminate it. It is about harm minimisation, putting in place the best model to decrease the likelihood of harm. The Swedish model is great for the ideologues, but not so great for the sex workers themselves. The question is whether the model to be used is to be in the interests of those on the ground or those pushing a particular ideology.The workers in question are the ones here in Victoria, Tina, so what relevance do women around the world have? 
Providing that the people involved are involved of their own free will then why can't it be a legitimate job like any other?Your argument fails, Tina, in that you begin it by assuming that all sex work is exploitation. In order to have the rest of your argument be viable you would first have to prove that all sex work, without exception, is exploitation whereas other jobs that rely primarily on physicality are not. Why is sex work "exploitation" whereas being a brick layer's assistant (just as an example) is not exploitation?For anything you write to be given any real consideration and not just be dismissed as the personal opinion of one person you have to be able to justify what you write, Just a thought. You write "Sex should be freely given between adults, not commercialized.", but provide no reasoning behind that statement that would lead anyone to consider the statement. You ask "Why should sex workers have the right to charge for something that is a fundamental aspect of human relations?", but provide no reasoning as to why the opposite question- Why shouldn't sex workers have the right to charge for something that is a fundamental aspect of human relations?- is not just as valid.
The rest of your first paragraph is a statement that could literally be applied to every situation involving humans and a non sequitur. You cannot call your self a doctor because, as you yourself pointed out, doctors require qualification and certification. Sex workers do not and never have. 

Who exactly is stopping you having discussions about how we actually want to relate to each other?Did you think that when AE wrote "The level of rent-seeking in our economy is disgusting, it really is." that she/he was excluding the coal, gas and oil companies, rattan?So you are questioning AE's prioritising of the offensive rent-seeking, rattan? What do you think makes your prioritising any more significant than AE's?You are as free to lobby as they are, cangaiman. The efficacy of your lobbying depends on how good you are at it. Many small special interest groups get their voices heard simply because their lobbying is good. Other, sometimes larger, special interest groups do not get heard as much because their lobbying is not as good.Money is not irrelevant, Comrade, but lack of money does not mean lack of effective lobbying. When it comes to influencing elected officials the ability to motivate voters (or at least to have the elected officials believe that you have that ability) outweighs money, which is how some special interest groups can have a greater lobbying ability than other, larger special interest groups with more funding.No-one is arguing for no law, chrisso, or at least extremely few are. Classic conservatives believe in the fewest laws necessary, not no laws. The point of the article is valid. When over regulation exists and the government regulates every little aspect of the country there is far more scope for rent-seeking within it than when there is no over regulation.Although many elements are shared between classical liberalism, neoliberalism and classic conservatism they are not identical, Comrade. Stating that classic conservatism is  neoliberalism based on one shared element is like stating that dogs, cats and lizards are the same animal based on the fact that they all have four legs.If they are avoiding "technical" illegality, Smuggler, then they are doing nothing illegal at all. Things are not illegal, are not crimes, just because you do not like them. There is no such thing as "legal criminals". If someone is committing no crimes then they are not criminals.Being heard by an audience is not a privilege, Colmery, it is earned by saying something that people want to hear. If you are not being listened to then it is because those who could be listening think that you have nothing to say worth listening to.
IPA articles get published because people want to read them.If they see renewable energy as an essential area to invest in, prison, then they are free to invest their money in it. What we object to is their demand that our money be invested in it. If it is such a good investment then why would taxpayers' money have to be invested? Wouldn't millions of private investors want to get on board to the extent that public money wouldn't be needed? 
No corporate donation is given with no expectation of benefit. A corporate donation is typically given for the same reason that private donations are given- because the entity donating expects things to be better for them under the governance of those receiving the donation. The question is whether there is an expectation of reciprocity, whether those donating are expecting the recipient to do something for them in exchange for the donation. If there is no expectation of reciprocity and the donations are being made because those donating prefer the policies of those they are donating to and they just want the pre-existing policies to be enacted then there is no problem. The main problem is not that corporations and individuals are trying to rent-seek, it is that politicians all try change things by putting in more and "better" laws, the idea being that more laws is better. This is not only their idea, it is also ours. We, the voters, not the corporations, cause the problem by demanding that elected politicians "do something" whenever some little problem occurs. If governments stopped making more and more laws, both legislation and regulation, and intruding into more and more aspects of people's lives then we would all be better off and the fact that there would be no opportunity for rent-seeking would just be a fringe benefit.Examples of appropriate regulation do not negate examples of over regulation, Ann.If the voters did not like what the elected politicians are doing then they would vote for other politicians, whohasthefish. The voters are not victims, powerless to stop politicians imposing upon them. If an elected politician acts legally, but unethically (in your opinion) and their electorate, in the full knowledge of their actions, re-elects them then their electorate has endorsed their supposedly unethical actions. The argument that elected politicians must "act ethically" and do "the right thing" (with, of course, those making the argument claiming the exclusive right to define what "ethically" and "the right thing" are) is common among progressives, but the argument has consistently been rejected by the public at large. The elected politicians are there to do what those who voted them into office elected them to do. If that conflicts with the progressive ideas about what is ethical or "the right thing" then too bad for the progressive ideas. 
The difference between the actions of most lobbyists and the alleged actions of some union leaders and some other lobbyists is one of legality. Efforts to stop the illegal actions of some people are not invalidated by not stopping the legal actions of other people, no matter how much you dislike the legal actions. 
Very few people are calling for the union movement to be shut down. No-one needs to. The union movement is dying because it cannot attract new members in an environment in which membership cannot be compelled. If unions that systemically commit illegal actions as the normal course of their operation are closed down then that is what should happen, as it should with any criminal organisation.Just one, Comrade? Easily done. In Victoria 1mW laser pointers, the type commonly seen in every boardroom 10 years ago now require a Prohibited Weapons permit, a ridiculous situation brought about by an irrational fear of terrorism (some genius pointed one at an aircraft) held by both sides of Victorian politics.If it is criminal behaviour, whohasthefish, then what law is it breaking? If is breaking no law then are you just claiming that things that you do not like are crimes?The crimes identified by the ICAC are illegal because the actions involved are banned by specific laws, whohasthefish. Those laws do not apply to all lobbying actions. What laws are you claiming the general lobbying in question is breaking?People do not have to abide by your idea of right and wrong, my idea of right and wrong or anyone else's idea of right and wrong, Dodger. All they have to do is abide by the law, the rules of society that have been put in place via the democratic process. You may not accept that other people do not have to abide by your idea of right and wrong, but the fact is that they do not.Other than Bishop the female coalition MPs and Senators are Concetta Fierravanti-Wells (Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister for Social Services), Fiona Nash (Assistant Minister for Health), Michaelia Cash (Minister Assisting the Prime Minister for Women and Assistant Minister for Immigration and Border Protection), Sussan Ley (Assistant Minister for Education), Marise Payne (Minister for Human Services), Nola Marino (Government Whip), Anne Ruston (Deputy Government Whip in the Senate), Bronwyn Bishop (Speaker of the House), Linda Reynolds, Michelle Landry, Sharman Stone, Ann Sudmalis, Karen Andrews, Fiona Scott, Lucy Wicks, Natasha Griggs, Sarah Henderson, Teresa Gambaro, Kelly O'Dwyer, Melissa Price, Jane Prentice, Karen McNamara, Louise Markus and Bridget McKenzie. So, Dave, which of these MPs and Senators would you give cabinet positions to and why do you think that they would perform better than both those currently with the cabinet positions or other male MPs and Senators who might fill those positions? Are you familiar with their skill sets or do you just think that the cabinet needs more women simply for the sake of having more women?You are the one making the demand that male cabinet members be replaced by female alternatives, Dave, therefore it is you, not I, who would have to explain why the specific proposed alternatives should replace the current cabinet members. Why should, say, Louise Markus replace Pyne and not Andrew Nikolic ?Social equality movements, feminism included, overwhelmingly gravitate toward equality of outcome, leftsplainer. Conservatives generally only support equality of opportunity in which the opportunity exists to prosper or fail based on individual merit regardless of which identity group someone is in, which is why you won't find most conservatives having any interest in social equality movements. 
Whether Bishop's individual rise to power is relevant to feminism depends on whether you define feminism as being intended to result in equality of opportunity or in equality of outcome. If it is the former then Bishop's individual rise to power is emblematic of the ability of the individual, male or female, to prosper and demonstrates that gender identity is no impediment to achieving high position.Bishop was "born to rule", Dave? How many farmer's daughters do you see wearing a crown?So how many farmer's daughters do you see being elevated to non-crown based positions of power and influence through nothing but the circumstances of their birth, Dave? Your objection to the use of a crown as a metaphor for positions of power is a red herring as it is the positions and not the fancy headwear that is at issue.Which of the other female coalition MPs and Senators do you suggest the cabinet positions be given to, Patrick? Which of their skill sets would make them better fits than any other coalition MP and Senator? Do you know their skill sets or do you just think that there should be a cabinet gender quota and the skill sets of those involved should be irrelevant?I will ask you the same question, Crow. Which of the female coalition MPs and Senators do you suggest the cabinet positions be given to? Be specific. Name names and the reasons why they specifically would do a better job than any other available coalition MP or Senator.And your solution to the quotas already in place is more quotas, Dave? You do not get better candidates into place by putting in more arbitrary and irrelevant criteria.Whether you think that conservatism is unfair depends on your definition of fair, saline. If you believe fairness is delivered through equality of opportunity then conservatism is completely fair as in conservatism you get exactly and only what you have earned, good and bad. If, on the other hand, you believe fairness is delivered through equality of outcome then conservatism is unfair as no-one gets anything, good or bad, they have not earned.All Australian students have the same chance to compete for university places and, if they get them, to have those places funded via the HELP system, CynicAL. Everyone having the same chance to compete for the same thing under the same circumstances is fair. The fact that they will eventually be expected to pay back the money in no way makes it unfair. 

All Australians have access to the publicly funded Medicare system. If some instead choose not to use the public system and instead to use their own money to pay a private medical provider for their medical care then they can and without making it unfair. Someone going out, earning money and choosing to use that money for better or more convenient medical treatment is no different from someone going out, earning money and choosing to use that money to buy a car so they do not have to use the less convenient public transport system available to all. As I wrote in classic conservatism you get exactly and only what you have earned. What you do with what you have earned is up to you. If you want to spend it on a private medical provider it is no more anyone else's business than if you want to spend it on a fancy new car or an overseas holiday. Your argument would have merit in the absence of a public system, but such a public system exists. 

The GST, being a flat tax, is fair. You pay a flat 10% on almost everything you buy, with the obvious exception of the groups of essential items. If you spend more, you pay more. If you spend less, you pay less. 

The idea to remove income support for young people was always idiotic which is why it has been abandoned. 

No, I did not give my primary vote to a coalition candidate, but indirectly I did vote for the coalition as I put them third last on my ballot, ahead of only Labor and the Greens (in that order) and through the system that we have my vote most likely did go to the coalition.Bishop's parents were farmers. I don't think many farmers would be very welcome down at the yacht club, Abraxas. You should actually finds things out Instead of assuming. You will get better outcomes.Why would you reserve your judgement on Bishop until she serves in another cabinet posting, Grumpy? Would you be reserving your judgement on a successful heart surgeon until she/he tried another job? 
Which of the other female coalition MPs and Senators do you want given a cabinet position and what skill sets do they have that would make them more suitable than any of the other coalition MPs and Senators who might be given the same role?"Privileged", Louise? Bishop's family, like many other families that send and have sent their children to private schools, were able to do so because they prioritised education over other things that they could spend their money on. Bishop herself worked in a stadium bar selling beer to rowdy football fans for extra money while she was at university. Hardly the mark of a privileged life.Your story is an excellent example of the prioritising that I wrote about, Sarah. You DID NOT prioritise education which is why you cannot afford it now. If you were prioritising education then you would not have spent the money you inherited on paying off your mortgage. This is what I keep writing about when it comes to personal choice and personal responsibility- if you make a choice when it comes to spending what you have then you need to accept the consequences of that choice. If paying off your mortgage means that you do not have the money for a private school then that is the consequence of the choice you made. It in no way makes you less "privileged" than someone who would have kept the money for private schooling.So your theory, Clotho, is that because they own an orchard they must be some kind of landed gentry? Most farmers (yes, even cherry farmers) own their own farms. It in no way at all makes them "privileged".Progressives believe that the individual is part of the whole and that the whole is more than the sum (not some) of its parts, Dodger, which is why conservatives want nothing to do with progressivism. When you believe that the whole of society is more important than the individuals in it you inevitably end up at the point where the freedoms of individuals are disposed of when they oppose the will of those claiming to be acting on behalf of the whole. In many occasions entire individuals are disposed of. The idea that the whole is more important than any of the individuals in it is the reason why the basement in the Lubyanka building has a sloping, easy to hose down concrete floor with a small gutter at the bottom and bullet proof walls. Even when it does not get to that point (but it very often does) the idea that the whole is more important than any of the individuals in it inevitably ends up being used to justify the state stripping people of their basic freedoms, such as freedom of speech, on the grounds that people having those freedoms is "bad for society". In reality this always just means bad for those in charge. The idea that the whole is more important than any of the individuals in it might work if the world was run by angels, but it is not. 
Why would it matter what you have seen in your 50+ years in business? It is no longer the 20th century. Things change. Just because something happened within living memory does not mean that it is still happening.You clearly do find it difficult to comprehend the conservative mind set, Dodger. We in no way believe the idea of an individual being part of the whole somehow enslaves the individual. We believe that the individual, every one of them, is equal to whole and the needs of the whole do not outweigh the rights of the individual. The conservative viewpoint is not as Ayn Rand thought of it, as a form of selfishness in which gain is to be had at the expense of others. Classic conservatives understand that the best results are to be had as part of a voluntary collective. The difference between classic conservatives and progressives is that of the voluntary part. Classic conservatives believe that participation should in no way be forced. Progressives believe that in order to get the best result for society as a whole the participation of the individual should be compelled.  Your example of soldiers in war is a good example. The Australian military is volunteer only. Everyone in it is part of a voluntary collective. No-one was forced to sign up and therefore the sacrifice of the individuals involved is held in great esteem.

The Lubyanka and such has everything to do with the progressive ideal. The Soviet Union did not murder tens millions of people just in order to murder them. It did so because the leaders believed that murdering those tens of millions was in the interests of the whole. It is the same reason why the Nazis, pikers in comparison, murdered millions.The argument that the actions of one person are diminished or invalidated because other people did not also take those actions is a common one made by progressives, rabbie, and it has always been an argument without merit. Bishop's parents were farmers who put off other spending in order to get her a better education. While in university Bishop worked behind a bar serving beer to drunken football fans. She got where she is because she and her family worked for it. Her gender and race were utterly irrelevant, her class was overcome rather than profited from and she made her own fortune. Her actions are not diminished because other people did not work as hard as she did. The idea that the circumstances of someone's birth is destiny is soundly killed off by the lives and experiences of people like Frank Lowy, Carl Lindner and Lindsay Fox who started off with next to nothing and made something of themselves anyway.No-one makes you a victim, Sarah, only you can do that. Being a victim means that you have allowed the actions of another to define you, to change you. Someone can harm you, but whether you become a victim is up to you. When you allow yourself to become a victim you are allowing the actions of another person to take away your power, something you do not have to do. That is the reason why people who have been raped are now called "rape survivors" instead of victims.Her parents were farmers and she is a former football stadium barmaid. How does that become "a very priveleged (sic) background", Zoe?
Not having children is a choice that Bishop made. Someone who made the other choice cannot reasonably expect to get the same outcome.And you have missed the definition of privilege, Louise. A privilege is special right or advantage available only to a particular person or persons in a particular group. Your parents overcame significant disadvantages and worked for the money that they used to send you to private school. As such your going to private school was not based on privilege, it was based on the hard work and self sacrifice of your parents. 
The effective ceiling of the Buk surface to air missile is over 70,000 feet, bassmanbob, and its intercept speed is over Mach 3. The missile was designed to intercept and destroy military airframes that can fly far higher and far faster than a commercial airliner. Other surface to air missiles, such as the Patriot MIM-104, have an even higher effective ceiling. If you are going to discuss the weapon systems and circumstances in question then you should learn about them first.Before birth a baby is not legally considered to be a person, Ann. If it was then it would have legal rights, including the most fundamental one- the right to life. If an unborn baby was to be considered a legal person then the inevitable result of that would be the abolition of abortion. 
Giving a pregnant woman an abortifacient without her knowledge or consent is an assault, and thus a crime, against her. A crime would still have been committed.When exactly are you claiming that the two person situation starts, Bill? If it is two person situation after the pregnant woman decides to continue the pregnancy then why is it not a two person situation before that? What has changed? The pregnant woman has made a decision, but nothing has physically changed. If a foetus is to be granted personhood and the rights that go along with it then why would that personhood be dependent on the decision of the mother and only occur upon the decision of the mother?Legally the two could not be more different, Jerry. A one month old is legally considered to be a person with all of the fundamental rights of a person. An unborn baby is not.I am not required to morally argue that it should be legal to expose it to the potentially lifelong consequences of in-utero alcohol consumption, Jerry, because morals are subjective and individual in nature. I am not required to morally argue one way or the other because the law is not and should not be based on anyone's morals. As long as the law is being obeyed then your morals or my morals or anyone else's morals have no bearing on someone's actions.Would that also apply to all other situations in which a pregnant woman takes a toxic chemical that results in adverse consequences for the foetus, Lee? Would you demand charges against a woman who underwent chemotherapy that saved her life, but that she knew would mean that the foetus would not be viable?Well then, Lee, if you are basing your argument on a differentiation between both the toxic chemicals and the circumstances in which they are taken then the question is at what point do you draw the line. Would charges be laid if a woman took heroin, but not methadone? What if she was taking the methadone in order to get high as an alternative to heroin instead of a way to get off heroin and who would make the call one way or the other? There is a 10% chance that Xanax will have serious adverse effects on the development of a foetus so will the taking of prescribed Xanax be ok? How would the legal situation change if the woman's doctor suspected that the woman was addicted to the very addictive prescription medication? What if the doctor both knew that the woman wanted the Xanax in order to serve her addiction AND knew that she needed it to treat a serious mental condition that the drug is legitimately prescribed for? How would the legal scales be weighed when it came to prosecution? The idea that a woman can be held legally to account for what she takes while pregnant does not stop at just alcohol, it cannot stop at just alcohol. The same arguments apply equally to many, many other substances.Legal culpability requires control, JD. What legal control do the fathers have over the consumption choices of the mothers and what legal authority would they use to exert that control?That the legal rights of the mother override the legal rights of the foetus is not an ideological standpoint, DaveR, it is a straightforward telling of the law. It is, for a start, the entire reason why abortion is legal- the wellbeing of the woman overrides the wellbeing of the foetus.Of course governments can legislate against stupidity and prosecute women for being stupid, Diana. Many such laws and prosecutions exist.Please learn at least a little about the law and how it works before trying to comment on it, lifeform. People have not either committed a crime or not committed a crime depending on whether a politician says that they have or writes them a reference. It does not work that way and it never has.So, whohasthefish, the Gillard government did not want to censor the media, just "hold the Press to account for their many many published lies" with the government holding the power to decide what is and what is not a lie. A distinction without a difference and one that hides the truth behind what can only be described as Newspeak. George Orwell would be glowing with pride if he intended 1984 to be a how-to guide.Common sense has everything to do with laws, yank. It is the so called "reasonable person" test, used by judges almost universally when ruling. In many cases the test is actually incorporated into the legislation itself.Prosecutions under Section 35P will require the AG's consent, Ben, but that does not mean the return of the concept of Writs of Attainder. In order for someone to be charged with a crime still requires them to commit the essential elements of the crime. This not only applies to Section 35F, but to all such crimes requiring the AG's consent. For example, under Section 16.1 of the Criminal Code Act 1995 the AG's consent is required if a non-citizen outside of Australia commits an offence under Section 14.1, 15.1, 15.2, 15.3 or 15.4 of the Act. The AG's consent is required for prosecution, but those being prosecuted still have to be reasonably suspected of committed the crime in question for the prosecution to go ahead. They cannot be charged just because the AG says they should be if they have not actually committed any crime. That you think the process is subjective just means that you do not know what the process is.Seriously, virgil? Do you think that for two people to understand how the law works or even just know the definitions of commonly used words requires them to be conspiring in a room somewhere?The answer is both, Edward. When ruling on a piece of legislation the courts take into account both the black-and-white wording and the intent of the Parliament that passed the legislation into law. Take the highly publicised asylum case that was recently before the Federal Court as an example. In the case Brisbane Federal Circuit Court Judge Michael Jarrett found that the child in question was an Unauthorised Maritime Arrival under the Migration Act 1958 and in his judgment cited both the Act itself and the intent of those who passed it into law.If you fail to learn from history then you are cursed to repeat it, Gazza. How can we learn if the lessons are wiped from history?Dunham says she merely "told a story about being a weird 7-year-old", but that leaves out the later story about when she was 17 and her sister 11. Would anyone be claiming that it was not sexual abuse if 17 year old girl Lena Dunham was 17 year old boy Lenny Dunham and wrote about masturbating beside his 11 year old sister or brother? The defence of Dunham and what she wrote in her book would not exist if Dunham was any other demographic other than the one she is. Her defenders have to explain why the behaviour is somehow to be viewed one way when Dunham does it and another way when anyone not like Dunham does it.They could mingle with the public if it was not for the fact that many of these "real Australians" seek to do them harm,  2bishops1prawn. Alas, many people congregated at the G20 meetings around the world, including here in Australia, have a habit of talking with their fists so the G20 leaders cannot safely mingle with them.The IMF and the OECD will not be getting a veto, Maryanne. They are just getting to comment before things go ahead, a chance to put in their non-binding two cents. Australia is no less sovereign than before.The survey results prove absolutely nothing conclusively, JohnC. It is far too short and small to do anything of the sort.Same problem with both online surveys, Bulldust. Same problem with online surveys in general- too short, too small and no control over who participates.The same problem that occurred with this survey is almost universal throughout most online surveys, Alpo. They are conducted for too short a time, are too small a sample size to indicate anything and are usually conducted in cause-friendly environments. Not accepting the result of a flawed survey is not a bad thing, it just means that you will not accept anything uncritically.Why would Labor even try to negotiate with the Greens, D.G.? If there is one thing that the Greens have proven time and time again it is that they do not negotiate. You either do it their way or do it without them. That is the reason why the Parliamentary Palmer United Party is more powerful than the Parliamentary Greens Party- the government will give Palmer United what they want, but will not give the Greens anything because Palmer United will give the government what it wants in exchange and the Greens will not.Even when the Greens and Labor were in an arranged partnership it was the Greens who were deciding what they would and would not support without compromising, Comrade. 
The government's budget negotiations have not stalled. The government is negotiating with Palmer United and Palmer United is forcing concessions from the government in exchange for what the government wants, which is exactly what I was writing about. If the Greens were willing to compromise then they would have a seat at the table, but they are not willing to compromise so here we are. 
Abbott did not say no to everything while in opposition. He was careful to only say no to the Labor government's policies on contentious issues of the day such as border security. His strategy was to put in place an environment in which the coalition would replace Labor, not assist Labor. In that he succeeded. The Greens, on the other hand, have no hope of replacing Labor or the coalition. In order for them to have influence over legislation and policy they need influence over the decision making process, something they cannot have unless they are willing to negotiate.Fine, Comrade, have it your way. The Greens have no REALISTIC hope or prospect of replacing Labor. The Greens get between 8% and 12% of the primary vote in federal elections. Labor gets over 30%.The coalition would get a worse election result with Turnbull in change than they would with Abbott, Econ. Labor and Greens voters prefer Turnbull, but would not vote coalition regardless of who is leading and coalition voters prefer Abbott to Turnbull.Crimes against humanity are actual things, gerard, with actual definitions. "Crimes against humanity" is not a blanket term referring to the things that you are personally opposed to. 
As for allowing Richard Flanagan "in" when did he get elected to the House of Representatives?That is not the cautionary principle, Comrade. What it is is a variation of Pascal's Wager. Blaise Pascal posited that people should all bet that God exists or does not exist. He argued that weighing the possibility that God does exist and the connected loss associated with no belief (eternity in hell) against the smaller loss of acting like you believe (spending time in church every week, praying, etc) would result in a rational person choosing to live as though God exists because the potential loss of not believing outweighs the potential loss of believing. The "We have to act on climate change now because not acting now would be worse than acting now" argument just replaces God with climate change.Are we really to believe that an online survey conducted for a grand total of four days and with barely more than 1000 respondents can be used to assess public sentiment about anything? 1000 people represents only 0.01% of the Australian electorate as a whole. You simply cannot accurately refer to any number in that survey, let alone to 16% (a whopping 160 respondents or less than 0.002% of the electorate), as "a significant proportion". This is taking nothing and trying to make it into something.
The results you get when it comes to such as small and short survey depends entirely on where the survey is conducted. A four day, 1000 person survey accessible from the Age will get a vastly different result than a four day, 1000 person survey  accessible from the Herald Sun. In order to start assessing even such a minor survey you first have to know where it was conducted. "The survey was conducted online" does not even start to answer that question.The problem, Jerry, is that the sample in the survey is not even remotely randomised. It is entirely self selecting. Even with surveys in which samples are controlled the smaller the survey, the more likely it is that any anomalies will adversely effect the outcome of the survey and lead to misleading results. This survey fails on both counts- it is a tiny survey in which the participants self selected, removing any chance that the outcome can be relied upon to be an accurate sampling of public sentiment. This survey has no more merit as a measure of public sentiment on climate change than the survey on religion I could have conducted outside Etihad Stadium during the recent Jehovah's Witnesses national conference.I assume that would be the Global Warming Petition Project, found here- http://www.petitionproject.org/ - along with a list of every person who has signed it.The climate change activists' problem is that they massively overegged the pudding, neil. When they tried to get attention early on by making ridiculous predictions of catastrophe (I am sure that I am not the only one who remembers the report on Channel 7's Today Tonight from 2007 that predicted massive firestorms "With the power of an atomic bomb" raging across the Earth) they set themselves up for failure. When you predict that the sky will fall in 10 years time you had better be right because if you are not then people will stop believing you. You had better be sure that there is a wolf when you cry wolf or people will just ignore you when there really is one. Even if some of the current predictions are going to come true there are millions upon millions of people who will not believe the predictions because of all the past far-fetched predictions that were never going to come true.If you were familiar with the history of bushfires then you would be aware that the Black Saturday fires were nothing unusual, Jones. There have been records of similar sized bushfires all the way back to British settlement and doubtlessly many, many more before that. The largest fire event recorded was the Black Thursday fires that occurred on the 6th of February, 1851, a day of over 47 degrees, and burnt a full quarter of Victoria. The Black Thursday fires burnt an area over 11 times larger than the Black Saturday fires and over two and a half times the next largest fire event, the Black Friday fires of 1939.Fine, Larry, they had total control for six months. It still does not change the fact that they had total control and still did not use it to put in place everything that they claim to want.The deficit may be down slightly, GJA, but the national debt is way, way up. The national debt was $11 trillion when he took over in 2009 and is $18 trillion now. You have nothing to crow about when you are responsible for adding the GDP of Africa twice over onto your already massive, unserviceable debt in less than six years.Ted would have no case against a judge, Hmmm. You cannot sue a judge for their official actions taken as part of their role as judge. It is called Judicial Immunity.The TPP is not going to allow multinational companies to veto laws the Australian government, via the federal Parliament, makes, jusme. It is a long standing and well founded element of Australian law that federal legislation trumps the treaties that Australia signs. If the legislation says one thing and the TPP says another then the legislation wins.Australia is not Canada, lifeform. We are two different countries with two different sets of laws. You can no more use Canadian law to sue in Australia than you can use Australian law to sue in Canada. By referencing the Canadian experience you are using the same failed argument that many other people, such as the right-to-bear-arms set, have inapplicably used in the past. It does not matter what the legal realities in other countries are. The only legal reality that matters when it comes to the legal status of treaties in Australia is the Australian legal reality and the legal reality that Australian federal legislation trumps the treaties that Australia signs goes back as far as High Court cases in the 1920s.A treaty between Australia and another country cannot make anything a crime prosecutable in Australia under Australian law, Asceptic. There would have to be legislation for that. The Parliament can pass such legislation right now, in the absence of the TPP, if it wants to and does not have to pass it later whether or not it is in the TPP.I know that, Headscratcher, because I know how the law works in Australia, as should you. The rulings of the High Court of Australia are a matter of public record and the rulings on the legal applicability of international treaties stretch back to the 1920s.How do you plan on forcing them to release their policies 6 to 12 months in advance, Peter? When it comes to elections the rules come from legislation and the Constitution. The current politicians will neither vote for new legislation requiring what you want nor for the establishment of the referendum required to put the requirement in the Constitution. The same goes for all the other things you want. You can write "force them" all you want, but how do you plan to do it?What Sections of the Constitution do you think need amending via referenda in order to deal with these "major policy decisions", Peter?You want referenda to be held, Peter. Referenda are used only to amend the Constitution. Am I to understand that you are calling for referenda without even knowing what the referenda would be about?The fact that you appear to define "undermine our Democracy" as sharing an opinion that you, Alpo, disagree with is very revealing. Those who work for the Murdoch press have as much right as anyone else, including you, to criticise a government. The fact that they criticised and opposed a government that you supported in no way means that they were undermining democracy because free speech on political matters is a core element of democracy, which is why the High Court ruled it a constitutional right in Lange v Australian Broadcasting Corporation (1997).If they were indeed known and admitted liars then the voters knew who they were voting for when they voted, Ann. The fact still remains that it is not nor has it ever been "undermining democracy" to state a political opinion, which is exactly what those writing for the Murdoch press were doing. This theory about the Murdoch press "undermining democracy" can only be seen as being based on the idea that elections can have either a right outcome or a wrong outcome, with the rightness or wrongness of the outcome being based on whether or not the preferred party of those who hold the theory has been elected. The outcome of a free election is always right because it is the will of the electorate and having the writers of any particular media outlet supporting one party or another does not change that. That the theory is based on which party is elected is the only conclusion that one can come to when observing the theory because we certainly heard no such theories about the Murdoch press "undermining democracy" when they supported the successful Rudd campaign in 2007.Employ them to do what, George? Neither the government nor taxes exist in order to create imaginary jobs for people unable to find jobs for themselves.That theory of government only works in theory if you think that the government exists to meet every need of every person in society, mt_syd. It only works in theory if you believe that the government should treat the public like children. I does not work in practice at all because at some point you run out of the money necessary to pay for it all and you cannot just print money forever in order to pay for it.Excessive and un-necessary regulation and compliance costs result in fewer job opportunities, Crusher. If an employer or prospective employer is being forced to deal with excessive and un-necessary regulation and compliance costs in relation to their employees then they are less likely to hire more employees.Peter has a very good point, mt_syd, and it has nothing to do with your strawman. cangaiman was in a job he hated for seven years. Are we really to understand he could not get any other job in seven years? In his own story he has one in every four months off that could have been used to find another job, a total of one year and nine months. According to Bureau of Statistics' Survey of Labour Force Experience it takes a man who has just lost his job ten weeks to find a new one and a woman nine weeks so why did it take cangaiman so long to find another job?Volunteering is an expression of pride in the volunteer's community. People will put their lives at risk doing things like fighting fires in order to save a community they have pride in, but not one they have no pride in. In generations past volunteering was common, even expected, because it was common, even expected, for people to have pride in their community. How is it remotely surprising that young people are not volunteering at any significant rate when all that they are taught every day is that Australia is an invalid and illegal colony based on genocide? You hear it in schools, you see it in museums, such as the Australian history display in the Melbourne Museum, you see it everywhere in the official messages given to children. How does that engender the pride required to volunteer? A community reaps what it sows. If it teaches its young that the community is invalid then it will find that the young will not help the community when help is needed.Do they volunteer, sdrawkcaB? If they do not then they are good examples of the general concept of which I wrote. When you teach people when they are children that their community is nothing to be proud of then they will not volunteer their time to assist it once they are adults. It does not matter whether you teach them that they should not have pride because of long past history or recent history. You will still get the same outcome.I was wondering when I would read that argument, Big M. It fails for the basic reason that, regardless of whether you like it or agree, sheep are not people.If the argument is to be made about cruelty, Lee, then make it about cruelty. The argument equating chickens (or sheep or cattle) with 19th century African people fails and will fail because it is obvious to everyone but the most hardcore activists that the two are not the same. You are correct when you point out that the African slaves in question were not legally considered to be people then and would be considered to be people now, but the sliding scale of personhood will only realistically slide so far and does not slide as far as sheep and chickens. 
Who exactly are you claiming is deciding that their business has no place? On what legal authority are they making that decision?I am not the one introducing irrelevant comparisons with personhood, Lee, unless you are claiming the slaves are not persons either. 
Your argument about constantly changing public sentiment has merit, but we are very far away from the point where public sentiment on the matter of live trade changes to a degree where the live trade laws will be changed. As long as the law is being obeyed then it does not matter what an individual person's opinion on live trade is.Neither, for that matter, are cattle, chickens, goats, fish, et al.If the business as usual is lawful then why should they not continue with it, Cap'n? If the actions of the Gillard government were unlawful (as may be the case) then why shouldn't they sue?The "sheep/chickens/cattle are exactly like slaves" argument is one that is routinely trotted out whenever this topic is discussed, Madgebadge, but it fails for one reason: no-one but the activists think that sheep, chickens and cattle are people or that they can be regarded as being equivalent to people. No-one but you thinks that chickens are the same as African people. The argument that sheep/chickens/cattle are the same as people always damages the activists' cause, as exemplified by when PETA released their "Holocaust on your plate" campaign in 2003. Only a hardcore, blinkered activist would even consider using photographs of Jewish children in the Auschwitz concentration camp to advocate on behalf of chickens and PETA learned the hard way that the public will not support any organisation that would do such a thing. 
Your morality argument is no more effective than your argument that sheep are people or the equivalent of people. Morals are personal and as such are subjective, not objective. Only those who already share your morals will agree with your morals. Anyone who does not already share your morals will not care that your morals are different to theirs and you cannot change their morals simply by pointing out that their morals are different to yours.They did not and do not have to ensure that their production systems met the expectations of the Australian public, Robert. All they had to do and have to do is to comply with the law. That is what the government had to do and has to do as well. If the Gillard government was not complying with the law when they put the ban in place then those affected by the ban have both the grounds and every right to sue.Those suing are alleging that the Gillard government was not complying with the law when they put the ban in place, Bill. If they are correct then they have grounds to sue. Your own analogy is inapplicable. You would not have grounds to sue if you could not export a product due to the product being made overseas by cheap slave labour and using an inferior product, but you could sue if the Australian government unlawfully prevented you from exporting a product that you did produce.The case has nothing to do with poor industry structure and governance, FS, and everything to do with whether or not the Gillard government's actions banning exports were lawful.Ultimately the arguments against the live export trade have nothing to do with the point at which the farmers lose responsibility, BravoRomeo, they are about stopping something that the activists oppose on the basis of their own personal morals that they seek to impose on others. To the activists the farmers never lose responsibility because they committed the "sin" of farming the animals.Were those people the farmers, astro? If not then the farmers have no culpability in the poor practices.Losing trade due to government decisions is part of business if the government made the decisions lawfully, Seabee. This is not a dictatorship in which the government can rule without reference to the law. Those suing are alleging that the decisions were not made lawfully.The case, as I understand it, astro, will hinge on whether the Gillard government overreached the limits of executive power when banning the export. Export procedures are not an element of that. The government's executive powers do not expand or contract based on what other entities have done. The governmental action could still be unlawful and compensation owed even if export procedures were not followed because the wrong governmental action was taken.Vexatious litigant is a legal term, astro. If you want to use legal terms then you should learn what they mean. I would be particularly careful about using terms like vexatious litigant as your use is not only inaccurate, but could be defamatory as well.They are not suing Meat and Livestock Australia because it is not Meat and Livestock Australia that they are claiming took the unlawful action that directly resulted in financial damage to themselves, fredn. The facts that the government has deeper pockets and that the farmers will still have to deal with Meat and Livestock Australia after any case are doubtlessly also considerations.It does not matter whether you think that the live trade is wrong or if you support the Gillard government shutting it down, Isabel. What matters is if the Gillard government was acting lawfully when they did so. If they were not acting lawfully then the farmers can sue and the farmers can win.And how many of these people shouting "Sell, sell" and "buy, buy" are actually doing any of the demanded selling or buying, gerard? Who is going to listen to your protesters when it comes to making investment decisions when their own money is on the line?The industry in question is not viable, Losimpson. It cannot survive without vast injections of cash from the government. When politicians say that they will create jobs it does not mean that they will create jobs by paying unviable industries to employ people and doing so at a rate far higher than the pay rates of those employed. If propping up renewables counts as creating jobs then the government could save millions by "employing" the same people to sit in a room all day doing nothing at the same level of pay.For decades the Australian car industry was propped up by government for a very specific reason, dace76, and it was not jobs. If someone believes that the renewable industry should be propped up for a specific reason then they should argue based on that reason rather than on inapplicable reasons like jobs that cost more to subsidise than those holding the jobs get paid.When he can do that and the public accepts it one might be tempted to conclude that the public does not actually accept the science of anthropogenic climate change. If the public does not support anti-climate change action then not taking anti-climate change action is the correct and proper thing to do. The government is elected to represent us, not to rule us. In a democracy the will of the voters rules, Theos. If the voters want a carbon tax and RET then they will elect representatives who promise to give them their carbon tax and RET. If, on the other hand, the voters do not want a carbon tax or a RET or any other thing then they punish any elected representatives who force one onto them. This is what Labor found out when they were in office- you can get elected, but if you do not give the people what they want then they will not re-elect you. If the Abbott government can do these things and still get re-elected in 2016 then these things will have been given the voters' stamp of approval. If that happens then the government will have done the correct thing- what the voters want.For those demanding action it is not about the money, Ursus, it is about "Saving the planet" and any discussion about cost is "policy hijacking". After all, what is a few billion (of other people's money) here and there when you are telling yourself that you are saving the entire world?Everyone prioritises, Hubert. Most people will prioritise their own immediate wellbeing and the immediate wellbeing of their own families over what may or may not happen in 100 years. The fact is that in a democracy anyone advocating for any particular cause must convince a majority of everyone else to support or at least to not actively oppose their cause. If those advocating for a cause, like climate change action, cannot convince a majority of everyone else to support or at least to not actively oppose that cause then they either do not have a winning cause or cannot make a convincing argument. Either way they only have themselves to blame.Even if we do not need state governments we cannot get rid of them, HistoryRepeats. The states are the legal basis for the Commonwealth. Without the states the Commonwealth cannot exist as the Commonwealth exists as an agreement between the states. No states, no Commonwealth.We haven't gone there yet because the government has weighted the options and has decided that going is not in our national interests, Ted. A government that has made that evaluation is doing its job. All overseas actions taken or considered should be evaluated through the national interest. If the national interest is enhanced then the action should be taken. If the national interest is damaged then the action should not be taken. If the national interest is neither enhanced nor damaged then the action can be considered on other merits, but only once that first evaluation is done.Exactly, Mark. Germany will happily take in our war wounded, but will not take our Ebola infected.Volunteer health professionals can already choose to put themselves in danger, but as soon as the Australian government gets involved there are duty of care issues, not only for the health professionals involved, but for the rest of us too. At the end of the day when it comes to issue such as this one the government should not be deciding on what does and does not attract votes or on some airy fairy notion of "global community", it should be deciding based on its one overarching duty- doing what is best for Australia. If the chance of damaging Australia's interests (provable interests, not some airy fairy karmic notion that if we get involved then something good will happen) outweighs the chance of enhancing Australia's interests then the government should not get involved.Duty of care very much applies when sending troops anywhere, mt_syd, which is why the government supplies the troops with good equipment and avoids sending them into any situation they cannot handle.On the contrary, anote, the principle applies equally to Iraq. The government has sent a small contingent of ADF personnel into Iraq because they have assessed doing so as being in the national interest and have sent no-one into Liberia, Guinea or Sierra Leone because they have assessed doing so as not being in the national interest. You or I can disagree with the outcome of those assessments, but we cannot claim that they were not done and still expect to be credible.No-one is stepping in like a protective father, foolking. Volunteers can choose to go and the government will not stop them, but as soon as the Australian government gets involved there are duty of care issues, not only for the volunteers, but for the rest of us too. If someone goes because the government promises to support them then what support can that person expect and demand? If they catch Ebola then what duties of care does the government owe them? Is the government required to repatriate them for treatment? If so then what duties of care would the government owe to the aircrew and medical transport team that would spend 30 hours+ in an enclosed environment with an infectious person suffering from projectile vomiting and explosive diarrhea? What duties of care would the government owe to the medical staff at whatever Australian medical facility they ended up in, given that the only people to catch Ebola outside of Sierra Leone, Liberia and Guinea during the current outbreak have been medical staff treating people who caught it in Sierra Leone, Liberia or Guinea? The question of whether the government should get involved is far more complex that you present it as and you leave out the one core question that should determine any government involvement outside of Australia- is the involvement of the Australian government in Australia's interests?How gratifying it is then, Kelvin, that there is no such thing as an "international citizen". You can try to impose the entirely confected concept upon us, but that does not mean that the rest of us have to accept it.Zellweger, like any other person, woman or man for that matter, has the right to choose how she lives her life. What she does not have is the right to do whatever she likes and to not have anyone else pass comment on it. One person's right to have cosmetic surgery or botox does not negate anyone else's right to free speech.A poor argument on your part, yank. The number of domestic violence victims requires greater resources to fighting domestic violence, not less to fighting terrorism. You do not ignore one threat just because another threat is bigger.Sadly I think you are right, Luke. If Abbott mentioned that it was bad to eat babies then this lot would soon have a range of recipe books out. Opposing just for the sake of opposing an individual is a good way to lose credibility with the very people that you are trying to talk to.Another "lone-wolf extremist"? Funny how many of them there are and funny how so many of them all seem to share so much in common. Maybe they should all form some kind of union, The Collective Lone Wolves.There is still an expectation of privacy when using someone else's network, David. The owner of the network, in this case the university, has the right to view and use what you put onto the network, but other people do not.Whether New Matilda had the legal right to publish the emails depends on how they got them, David. If they were given the emails with the authorisation of the university then they had every right to publish the emails, but not if they stole them or were given the emails by someone who stole them. Now that Spurr has dropped the lawsuit I am guessing that we will never know how they got the emails.Thankfully, anote, your ideas about what is funny are not used to determine what is and what is not a joke nor used to determine what jokes can and cannot be told.It would not matter if I found it funny or if I found it offensive, anote. You, like Spurr, would still have the right to write it. When it comes to the matter of whether someone has the right to make a joke to a friend whether I find the joke funny or offensive is as irrelevant as if you find it funny or offensive.Chris Graham may say that "hell will freeze over" before he reveals his source, but he will reveal or he will go to jail. The case will hinge on how Graham got his hands on the emails and the judge will almost certainly order him to hand over the name of his source. If he refuses then the judge will send him down for contempt of court.If it does get as bad as is being predicted, Yank, then the one question that the Australian public will be asking is "Which party has the policy most likely to keep it out of Australia?" Whether or not it gets as bad as predicted, when it comes to the priorities of the Australian voters keeping it out of Australia trumps treating it in other countries. If there is any short term risk that Australian involvement in Africa will increase the risk of Ebola coming to Australia then the only way that the Australian people would support involvement is if the involvement could be proven to decrease the longer term risk of Ebola coming to Australia and in that regard the involvement of Australia will be all but insignificant in stopping the spread in Africa.There have been no infection control failures in Europe and the United States, v. The only Ebola related outbreaks in the US and Spain (the only two Western countries that have seen Ebola cases) are outbreaks of panic and speculation. If and when there is an Ebola case in Australia the same containment procedures will prevent an outbreak here that prevented outbreaks in the US, in Spain, in Nigeria and in Senegal. The risk in Australia is the same as in other Western countries- the risk to front line health workers, not a risk of a widespread outbreak.Stopping Ebola from reaching Australia is currently a mainstream issue and if so much as a single case of Ebola occurs in Australia then it will be the mainstream issue, wry. It is far from being "done-and-dusted". If a case does occur in Australia and Labor is seen by the public as having obstructed the government in keeping it out then it will bite Labor hard and deep.99.9% of all known Ebola cases in the current outbreak, all but 24 cases, have been in three tiny countries, "Sir" Robert- Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea. In the four other countries it has been in found in (Spain, the US, Senegal and Nigeria) the only cases have been people travelling from Liberia, Sierra Leone or Guinea and the medical staff who treated the travellers. In those countries the virus has been contained. The idea that this is a pandemic festering on our doorstep is simply wrong, but any case in Australia will be seen as a failing in border security as currently the only way for it to come to Australia is through someone who has just come from Liberia, Sierra Leone or Guinea. It would not be difficult to institute a ban on travel to Australia for any foreign national who has travelled to those countries and to institute a lengthy quarantine time for any Australian citizen who has travelled to those countries. That is currently what Australia should be doing.The only transmissions outside of Liberia, Sierra Leone or Guinea have been from a traveller from Liberia, Sierra Leone or Guinea to a local health worker treating them, Bradfordlad. The R0 (r nought) number of Ebola in Western Africa is 1-2, that is to say that while Ebola will kill about 90% of those infected in Western Africa the infection rate of Ebola is quite low due to the method of infection, the conditions of transfer and the time from infection to death. Compare it with the HIV virus or measles. HIV, which is also spread by contact with infected bodily fluids, has a R0 number of 2-5, over twice that of Ebola, and measles, an airborne pathogen, has a R0 number of 12-18. Unlike HIV Ebola can only be transmitted once the infected individual is symptomatic and an infected person will likely be incapacitated within 3 to 4 days and will die within 6 to 16 days. While they are incapacitated they can only infect those who choose to have physical contact with them or the bodily fluids they expel. This is why women in Western Africa are being infected and dying at a far higher rate then men- they, like healthcare workers, are the ones tasked with looking after infected family members- and why outside of the affected areas only healthcare workers have been infected. The hypothetical you propose- someone from Liberia, Sierra Leone or Guinea travelling to Europe (or anywhere else) and infecting another person who then travels to a third country- has never occurred, ever. It has never happened between countries with land borders you can just rive over let alone ones that require a 30 hour flight to cross.The number of cases of transmission from that nurse to other passengers on that plane, "Sir" Robert? Zero.How many hospital ships does Australia have, John51? (I will give you a hint- it is a number between 1 and -1) The RAN has 14 patrol boats, 12 frigates, 6 surveying ships, 6 landing ships, 5 submarines, 6 minehunters and 2 support ships. 
Your other idea, building a land hospital staffed with ADF personnel would not work either. Unlike the US military not many Australian personnel are trained for widespread biohazard situations.And what happens when those "boots on the ground" (or more specifically those wearing them) catch Ebola, Yank? What is to be done with those people? Already sixteen staff members of M?decins Sans Fronti?res have been infected with Ebola and nine of them have died. There are calls for any infected foreign nationals to be taken back to first world countries where there are no cases of Ebola. What do you recommend happens when Western citizens are infected? Do you recommend they be left in Africa or do you recommend they be returned to their own countries and risk spreading the disease to areas that it is not now in?Which European country to you think will agree to import foreign Ebola cases, Dave? The European countries are no more likely than Australia to take in such cases and put their own domestic health workers at risk.No, John51, we do not. Do some research of your own into what ships the RAN has and what capacity the ADF has for foreign biohazard containment scenarios.The reason why you have never heard of them is because they do not exist, OUB. The last time Australia had hospital ships was right after the Second World War, when the civilian ships commandeered into service for the war were decommissioned and returned to their owners. Australia has not needed hospital ships since the 1940s. Even when Australia was taking casualties during the Vietnam War the casualties were taken to US hospital ships like the USS Sanctuary. John51 wants us to help by sending imaginary ships.rehabilitator, we have a CBRN capability, but the CBRN capability that we have is largely domestic, through state bodies. They can operate effectively in Australia, but are not the kind of thing that can be sent overseas by the government.Keeping unwanted biological hazards, be they human diseases or pest animal species, out of Australia is as much as part of border security as keeping unwanted people out is, Dave. The entire point of border security is keeping unwanted things out. Any action taken by the government that could have the effect of increasing the likelihood of Ebola coming to Australia will be seen by the public as a failure of border security policy particularly if Ebola does get here as a result of that action.Which "specialised personnel" would they be, Alpo? From where would Australia be getting a significant number of people specialising in treating and/or containing fast acting forms of viral hemorrhagic fever? You, like John51, seem to be coming up with "solutions" that require us to have resources we just do not have. 
If and when Ebola comes to Australia the course of action to be taken is the same one taken in Spain, the US, Senegal and Nigeria when it showed up in their countries- containment. Sending personnel to West Africa increases the likelihood of infected travellers (the same people we send when they return) coming to Australia without decreasing the likelihood of the virus spreading outside of the three countries it is currently in. 
Those "thousands of people" coming by plane are hardly unwanted. If they were unwanted then they would not have been given visas.If the government is doing nothing to ensure infected health workers can come home then it is doing what it should be doing, Olive. The government's responsibility in keeping people infected with Ebola out of Australia is far greater than any responsibility it might have in repatriating any Australians who have put themselves in a position to catch it in the first place. The health workers may be free to put themselves at risk, but the government should not be putting at risk other Australians who did not make that decision.It currently is contained at its source, Alpo. It is limited to three tiny countries in West Africa- Liberia, Guinea and Sierra Leone. Of the over 9,000 known Ebola cases all but 24 of them have been in those three countries and all but 5 of them have been in Africa. In the other 4 countries it as appeared in (Spain, the US, Senegal and Nigeria) it has been contained. Until it is clear that there is a likelihood of it spreading outside of West Africa our priority should be to prevent travel to Australia of anyone who has been to the West African countries affected and to discourage travel to the countries affected. You cannot effectively treat an Ebola outbreak, you can only quarantine the infected and wait for the outbreak to burn itself out.Why should our allies endanger their own medical personnel by taking our Ebola cases, Moi? 
Keeping Australians safe is the primary job of the Australian government. When it comes to Ebola the one and only consideration of the Australian government should be to keep it out of Australia. All other considerations should take a back seat to that one consideration.It could not have started in the US or Europe, ribald. The primary cause of the spread in West Africa is the societal behaviours of the people living there, such as their funeral customs (extensive handling of the deceased) and the lack of trust in medical personnel, leading not only to seeking professional help being a last resort, but to attacks on medical personnel when they arrive to try to stop the spread of the disease. Although it can spread in modern Western countries it would not have spread as far and fast as it has in those West African countries.Extraction to where, Jazzy? Which country wants to let in people known to be infected with Ebola?They cannot be brought back here safely, Jazzy. We have no way of isolating them during transportation. Any attempt to transport an infected and symptomatic individual back to Australia (they would be symptomatic as there would be no point in transporting them unless it was known that they were infected) would put the aircrew and transport medical team at unacceptable risk. A 5 hour flight to Europe may be possible. A 30 hour flight to Australia is not. Bringing them back here is only viable if you regard the aircrew and transport medical team as expendable.That is the tactic Labor used to have Rudd elected, Zing, that Labor was the coalition, just without Howard. If Labor is using that tactic again then they must think that the Australia voter has a very short memory. The thing is that I am not sure that Labor is wrong.Australia's closed wallet and closed border approach is to protect Australians and the interests of Australians. That is and should be the Australian government's highest priority, Graeme. Viruses don't respect borders, but if those carrying them can be kept out then the viruses will be kept out too. If this means that people who have been to Ebola outbreak areas have to be kept out of Australia then that is what will have to be done.If doctors and nurses want to go then they can, Helvi, but they will not be sent by a government unable to guarantee both their safety and the safety of Australians at home should those doctors and nurses return infected.The vast majority of cases and deaths have been limited to three tiny countries in West Africa, steveb22- Liberia (4,200 cases and 2,500 deaths), Sierra Leone (3,400 cases and 1,200 deaths) and Guinea (1,500 cases and 800 deaths). In all the other places that it has appeared (Nigeria, the United States, Spain and Senegal) it has either been contained or is being contained. There is no evidence that Ebola is guaranteed to come to Australia and if efforts are taken to prevent it from coming the chances of it coming are low.Make your and Labor's case, Reinhard. What provable advantage would Australia gain by putting boots on the ground?If the government is to put Australians at risk then advantage MUST be a requirement, Reinhard. The Australian government exists to serve the interests of the Australian people. It is not part of a pan global charity organisation. If individuals want to go to West Africa then they are free to, but the Australian government has duties to the Australian people.It is a government's job to be heartless, Helvi. Governments are meant to act based on a detached evaluation of the situation, not react based on their own emotional states. A government making a decision based on their own emotions rather than on rational evaluation with a clear goal in mind means that something has gone wrong.We have a CBRN capability that can be deployed overseas on the orders of the federal government, Bandofgypsys? As the NSW Hazardous materials/chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear management plan released in 2012 showed most of the available resources were state agencies like Fire and Rescue NSW, the NSW Police Force, the Ambulance Service of NSW, the State Emergency Service, the NSW EPA, NSW Health and the NSW Department of Primary Industries. None of them could be sent overseas by the federal government. What CBRN capabilities does Australia have that could be deployed to West Africa by the Australian government that would be worth the risk of deployment?Ebola is limited to West Africa, James. In the past when it has been found elsewhere, including in the current outbreak, it has been eliminated. Until there is actual evidence that it is going spread outside of West Africa this panic that it is festering right on our borders is baseless. This is certainly not the first time that the spread of a deadly disease had to be dealt with. We have seen the threat of things like Bird Flu and SARS, both of which were far more widespread than Ebola currently is, which have neither devastated Australia nor required the closing of our markets or national borders.A few affluent first worlders have been infected, bbt. The virus was contained and no outbreak occurred.If you had not noticed, Reinhard, Morrison is the Immigration Minister. It is his job to regulate the movement of people in and out of Australia. The health of those people makes health matters his concern.Are you expecting our allies to prioritise our infected over theirs, Rob? That is what you are arguing, that they would be agreeing to utilise their limited capability to treat Australians ahead of their own less advanced cases brought back under similar circumstances. If the situation were reversed and there was an outbreak of a similar disease in Burma (a country about the same distance from Australia as the Ebola areas are from Europe) would the Australian government agree to treat foreign aid workers sent by other countries ahead of Australians? It seems unlikely. We entered the Iraq conflict because it was deemed to be in our interests to enter and we are staying out of the Ebola situation for the same reason.Exponential maths and "I can't see quite" have no place in a discussion on Ebola, John. The first fails to take into account the spread characteristics of the virus and the latter is nothing more than a common statement of ignorance. In order to predict the spread potential of Ebola outside of impoverished tropical countries with unfortunate cultural habits (funeral rites that require extensive handling of the body may be traditional in the affected areas, but are an exceptionally bad idea when Ebola is concerned) you have to look at the spread characteristics of the virus and the history of the virus outside of the origin areas. Ebola has been found in Western countries before. In 1976 one person was infected through a lab accident. The case was isolated and an outbreak prevented. In 1989 and 1990 Ebola infected monkeys were imported into the US. They were quarantined and destroyed with no outbreak. In 1992 the same thing happened in Italy. In 1996 an infected medical professional travelled from Gabon to South Africa after having treating Ebola infected patients. He was hospitalized in Johannesburg and one nurse became infected and died. No outbreak occurred due to effective quarantining. These kinds of stories are repeated over and over, in the Philippines and Russia in 1996, in Russia in 2004, in the Philippines in 2008 and in Spain and the US this year. With effective quarantining and border control measures in place there is no realistic prospect of an Ebola outbreak in Australia. 
The Australian public simply will not be willing to pay an Ebola tax (whatever you want to call it or whatever form you want to put it in) in order to send people over to Western Africa. That is a reality that you will just have to accept. 
Any agreement by Australia citizens not to return to Australia would not be worth the paper it is printed on. It would not be legal.Both are true, mikemwa. Australia's capabilities to deal with this sort of thing are almost all domestic and cannot be deployed overseas. If an infected and symptomatic person was brought back to Australia then they could be treated, but bringing an infected and symptomatic person back to Australia would be too dangerous to the people tasked with transporting them and to the people tasked with treating them once they were here.Containing the disease at the source until it burns itself out is the most effective way of dealing with the outbreak and what should be done, el-viejo. It sounds harsh and it probably is, but it would be the best way of preventing the spread of the virus to other similar countries in the region. Unfortunately, human nature being what it is, I confidently predict that the hard choices will not be made.Australians wounded in Iraq are evacuated to the Landstuhl Regional Medical Center in Germany, "QC" Bob, with the permission of the German government. Germany will not take our Ebola cases.As AGB wrote "used to", lazarus. The Gillard government killed off all the (then) DIAC reports on the matter of refugee outcomes and the Abbott government seems not to have revived them. The old reports, like the 2011 report "Settlement Outcomes of New Arrivals", the one that I believe AGB got their numbers from, are still available online.The UN has no part is this, Spinner. The matter will be determined under Australian law.Correction to above: The UNHCR has no part is this, Spinner. The matter will be determined under Australian law.Read the High Court's ruling in QAAH of 2004 v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs, Spinner. The Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees is not law outside of when Australian legislation makes it law. If it is not law then the Immigration Minister doesn't have to obey it.You very clearly don't understand the law, Craig. 
Any stateless child born on a ship or aircraft registered in Australia is entitled to claim Australian citizenship, but they are not considered to be an Australian citizen until that claim is approved. A claim of statelessness does not automatically confer citizenship so until it is determined that the child is stateless and the Immigration Minister consequently grants citizenship they are not an Australian citizen and are not considered to be one. Even if a claim to citizenship was to be made the Immigration Minister would not legally be able to grant citizenship unless the claimant could prove that the child on whose behalf the claim was being made actually was born on the Australian registered vessel in question. Unless that legal proof could be given the Immigration Minister would be unable to be "satisfied that: the person was born in Australia;" as required by Section 21(8). 
Australia in no way, shape or form has to grant citizenship to an unidentified child found on a ship or aircraft registered in Australia. The definition of "in Australia" under Section 14 of the Australian Citizenship Act 2007 is the conventional one found in legislation. It includes the external Territories, but doesn't include vessels registered in Australia. Furthermore under Section 14 it is a presumption of citizenship, not a grant of citizenship. As is quite clearly written it is "unless and until the contrary is proved." As soon as it is proven that the child in question is not an Australian citizen they lose the Section 14 presumption that they are. The Department of Immigration and Border Security doesn't have to prove the nationality of the child for the presumption of Australian citizenship to be lost, all they have to do is prove that the child isn't an Australian citizen.It doesn't matter what International law (sorry  INTERNATIONAL LAW) says, v. Due to the long standing legal fact that the treaties and conventions that Australia signs are not law in Australia unless made into law by an Act of Parliament (Unless made into law then their application is limited to being only one part of procedural fairness) it only matters what Australian law has to say about it. Currently the law imposes no such legal obligation and the law is this way because the Australia people want it this way. If the people were demanding change then the Parliament would deliver change. The same concepts apply here that apply to the discussions on asylum seekers- the Australian public has no intention to be the perpetual "lifters" for the world's never ending supply of "leaners".Look at the record again, v. There have been cases in which the High Court threw out regulation, not legislation, because they conflicted with international law applied as procedural fairness. Look at cases like Magno, Teoh and QAAH for the legal application of international law in Australia. International Conventions signed and ratified by Australia are applied as  procedural fairness which is used to interpret legislation. International law that has not been turned into Australian law can only be applied if the legislation allows it. If the actual legislation and the relevant Convention come into conflict then the Convention is invalidated by the legislation. You may have a different opinion on the applicability of international law, but it is the High Court and not you that gets to make that decision. The simple fact is that providing that the Parliament passes legislation that is the opposite of a Convention then the Convention can and in many, many cases is ignored because it is not considered to be law by the Australia government or courts. The asylum issue is a good example of this concept in action. For more than 20 years the UNHCR and the UN Human Rights Committee has been finding Australia in breach of international law without effect because Australian law and international law came into conflict and Australian law won.  Countries can and are ignoring international law because for the most part international law is neither enforced on a domestic level nor on an international level. If a law is not only unenforced, but not even considered to be law, then it is optional.That is yet to be determined, Bazza. The child should not be given Australian citizenship until the relevant facts on the matter have been decided on, first by the Department of Immigration and Border Protection and then, possibly, by the courts. If the government's legislation passes through the Senate then this is all a moot point and the child will no longer be entitled to citizenship regardless of the circumstances.If they were permanent residents their Australian born children would also be Australia citizens, maddog.Being an Australian citizen does give a person a greater number of rights than a non-citizen immigrant and a greater number again than an asylum seeker, Paul01. This is nothing more than a statement of fact. Your disliking of it does not stop it being a fact.No one is contesting the facts that the baby was born in Australia or that it is being denied the status of Australian, Paul01. There is no link between being born here and being Australian in his circumstances. The baby is being denied the status of Australian because so far no legal cause has been shown that he is owed the status.The list is quite extensive, but yes, Islander, those rights and many more.Woolies can't say or do anything, v. The people who work for or own Wollies can do both and it is their freedoms that you hope to curtail. If you can curtail their freedoms when they use them in a way that offends you then what argument do you have against someone curtailing your freedoms when you use those freedoms to offend them?I was referring to their roles as representatives of Woolies, Applaudanum. Free speech does not stop being free speech just because you are speaking on behalf of a business."Some people say that Australia seems to be abandoning democracy."
If they say that, Craig, then they have no idea what democracy is. If a government goes to a free election with a set of policies and, once elected by the voters, enacts those policies then democracy is in no danger at all.Nothing you have written is remotely the abandoning of democracy, Filipio. Their presence in the political system doesn't invalidate democracy nor do they indicate a move away from it.It is because of the luck of birth and the behaviour of the detainees had nothing to do with it, gerard? Did Australia go to Iran, Sri Lanka and Afghanistan, scoop those people up and put them on Nauru and Manus Island? Of course not. They are there because they tried to come to Australia in violation of the will of the Australian people. They are on Nauru and Manus Island because of what they did, not because of where they were born.The will of the Australian people is expressed via the democratic system, lazarus. The will of the people does not mean all of the people and a consensus is not required. In a democracy the majority wins and the fact that a minority may not agree means nothing. The fact that you and others disagree with the outcome of the democratic process does not invalidate it nor counters the fact that multiple surveys conducted by both sides of the issue have for more than a decade shown that a clear majority of those surveyed support tight border security.Neither does Italy, roddo, but that does not stop Italy from offloading the unwanted asylum seekers anyway. Under the Dublin Regulations asylum seekers are supposed to be processed and resettled by the first EU country they enter, but Italy does not want them and encourages asylum seekers to go to other EU countries.The baby is with his parents in detention, Eric, but that is not the basis of the case before the Federal Court. The basis of the case is that the parent's lawyer is trying to have the Federal Court rule either that the child is entitled to Australian citizenship or that a child born in Australia cannot be legally regarded as an Illegal Maritime Arrival and so can't be sent into offshore detention. Either way it is an attempt to impose a US style "anchor baby" system onto Australia in which asylum seekers would attempt to give birth in Australia on the understanding that they themselves, along with the rest of their families, could stay when their newborn could. If they win this case then expect to see a boatload of drowned pregnant women in the near future as asylum seekers act on the new incentive.Things are not crimes just because you think they are or want them to be, gerard. If you cannot identify a law that has actually been broken in a criminal way then no crime has been committed.The Italians only want to move refugees on to other European countries, Helvi, much like Indonesia wants to move asylum seekers on to Australia. Australia doesn't have the option of having asylum seekers move on in the way that Italy and Indonesia do so our situations and our responses to them cannot be compared.Domestic legislation beats international law, Comrade. That is a long standing legal fact. Look at the High Court of Australia's rulings in cases like Magno, Teoh and, directly relevant to the Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees, QAAH. If a treaty or convention signed by Australia is in conflict with Australian legislation then it is the treaty or convention that is invalidated. 
John cited the Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees because the legislation cites it. A treaty or convention only has the force of law if made into law by legislation and only within the limited context of the legislation. 
The Article of the Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees that John was quoting from is Article 31(1) and reads as follows- "The Contracting States shall not impose penalties, on account of their illegal entry or presence, on refugees who, coming directly from a territory where their life or freedom was threatened in the sense of article 1, enter or are present in their territory without authorization, provided they present themselves without delay to the authorities and show good cause for their illegal entry or presence." It limits what Contracting States are allowed to do. It has absolutely nothing to do with which other countries an asylum seeker has visited before claiming asylum.Sorry, Dr Who, but for someone who is claiming to be correcting others you don't seem to know the facts yourself. 
It is not the UNHCR that decides who is and who isn't a refugee when it comes to asylum seekers, it is the country that they claim asylum in that decides. 
It is unlawful for a foreign national to enter Australia without authorisation and so is against the law. It is not illegal, that is something different to unlawful, but things that are unlawful and things that are illegal are both not lawful and as such are against the law. If you don't like that fact then I suggest that  you take it up with the High Court of Australia as it is they who made the call on this matter.It's not lawful, Comrade. The Migration Act 1958 in fact makes it unlawful to come here without permission, including if you are doing it in order to claim asylum. There are not only two legal states- lawful and illegal- there are in fact three legal states that an action can fall under- lawful, unlawful and illegal. Unlawful doesn't mean illegal, so coming here to claim asylum isn't illegal, but neither of them is lawful.Refoulement only applies to the host country forcibly returning them, Comrade. It's not refoulement if they go back on their own.They had to have the documentation before arriving in Malaysia or Indonesia, Dr Who, because they could not have entered either of those countries without it. It is possible that a very few could have lost their documentation while in Indonesia or Malaysia, but the idea that entire boatloads of asylum seekers inadvertently lost their documentation somewhere along the way beggars belief. The idea that we should give tens of thousands of asylum seekers the benefit of the doubt based on the possibility that a tiny handful actually lost their papers simply isn't going to fly. A case by case situation is obviously required, but this should not occur in a vacuum. The deliberate mass disposal of identification by everyone on a boat (or even the vast majority) should be seen as a massive black mark against anyone claiming asylum without it.It is not the first European country that an asylum seeker is registered in, Coogara, it is the first European country that they arrive in. If it was the first country that they chose to register in it would defeat the whole purpose of the Dublin Regulations, the purpose being to stop asylum seekers travelling around Europe looking for the best deal. This is actually the main objection that the asylum seeker advocates, including the European Council on Refugees and Exiles and the UNHCR, have to the Dublin Regulations- that the regulations prevent asylum seekers from "forum shopping", something that the European Council on Refugees and Exiles describes in their report 'Sharing Responsibility' as "fundamental rights of asylum seekers" to "free choice". Put simply the European Council on Refugees and Exiles maintains that it is a fundamental right of asylum seekers to choose where they claim asylum regardless of whether they have previously travelled through other safe countries in which they could claim asylum. If the European Council on Refugees and Exiles had their way then an asylum seeker arriving in Italy and finding that the Italian asylum system wasn't to their liking could then choose to have their asylum claim assessed by the European country of their choosing, most likely somewhere like Britain where they could get far better handouts, and if successful under an assessment system imposed on all EU countries they would be sent to the European country of their choosing. Over the last 30 or so years it has become the opinion and policy of asylum seeker advocate organisations, such as the UNHCR, that having signed up to the Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees does mean that a country has to accept however many asylum seekers want to live there.silver fox is correct, Graeme. If you are of the opinion that it doesn't matter if they come or not and so don't care if they come or not then those who do care outnumber those who think like you. Democracy is a numbers game. Those with the numbers win.Scary, perhaps, Troy, but not remotely unusual."People will flee, looking only at the terror behind, not the danger ahead" might be a great line, phurphink, but the evidence proves it wrong. If it were right then the number of asylum seekers coming here wouldn't have fallen at all. The fact is that in the first third of 2014 the number of asylum claims in the industrialised world has risen 25% while the number of claims in Australia has fallen 25%. Asylum seekers are mindful of where they are going. The government's policies are intended to ensure that if asylum seekers intend to come here then they do it in a way that complies with Australia's wishes and those policies are working.The laws on child abuse are not based on the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child (There's no such thing as "the United Nations charter on the Human Rights of children."), Darren, so the two aren't connected. Consequently, not complying with the latter doesn't result in the breach of the former.Darren, it doesn't matter one tiny bit whether you think that what the government has done "amounts to heinous criminality" or whether you think that Abbott, Morrison, et al belong in jail. The law doesn't rely on your opinion any more than it relies on any one other person's opinion. If no law has been breached in a criminal way then no crime has been committed and no-one is going to jail.The Australian voters don't have the memory capacity of a goldfish, peterjim. The boats might not be coming now, but we remember when they did and the voters won't accept any "redress" to the current situation. 

The only "regional solution" that the "states of first refuge" (If they are "states of first refuge" then why should Australia have any obligation to accept anyone who has found refuge in them?) in our region want is one that funnels the asylum seekers from their countries into ours. Where is the advantage to Australia in setting up such a system?Why would the government withdraw from the Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees when mostly removing it from Australian law and ignoring it otherwise is just as effective, AS? Withdrawing wouldn't stop the critics claiming that the government's policies are in violation of international law. Just look at the current claims about international law. They have gone from claiming that asylum is owed under the Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees that countries can withdraw from to claiming that it is a part of customary international law that applies to all countries whether they sign up to it or not.Your idea isn't viable for one reason, Raven- Indonesia doesn't want asylum seekers and won't take them. The only reason that Indonesia hasn't kicked up a massive stink over the return of asylum seekers is because they know that it will result in fewer asylum seekers.At least the asylum seeker advocates are finally being honest in their arguments and are finally admitting what the rest of Australia has known for years- that the asylum seeker advocates believe that asylum seekers have a right to permanent residence in Australia (Although they say some this will eventually expand to all.) regardless of what Australian law says or what the writers of international law intended. This will never be accepted by the Australian voters regardless of how the asylum seeker advocates choose to reinterpret international law. "There is no reason why asylum seeker policy must reflect public opinion" won't cut it with the voters. Australia is a democracy and the government makes laws with the consent of the voters. The voters will rightly regard any laws made without their consent and against their will as being a betrayal of the voter/elected relationship and will vote out the betrayers at the first opportunity. The voter backlash against Gillard's carbon tax was a good example of this. She was "ahead of public opinion" and is no longer Prime Minister.
The wording chosen by Mares, Mitric, McNevin, Neumann and Taylor is interesting, especially the term "countries of first asylum". If someone has already found asylum elsewhere then why is it Australia's responsibility to take them when they show up here uninvited?Those who don't like the current policy have the opportunity to see what the alternative for Australia is, by looking at the other ABC article on the subject of asylum seekers, the article entitled 'Behind the scenes on a ship taking part in Italy's version of Operation Sovereign Borders'. In it are details of Italy's asylum seeker "rescue" operations. Some of the details, such as asylum seekers not even trying to make it to land, but just sailing just out of Libyan waters and contacting the Italian navy on their satellite phones, will be very familiar to Australians. Other details, such as Italian sailors having to wear full biohazard suits due to the high risk of diseases including Ebola, will be less familiar. When evaluating your options the first thing to do is to look at what others are already doing and to see what their results are. The Australian voters are not going to accept a course of action that has seen the other taker of that course having 140,000 arrivals in 9 months, 3,000 more drowning in those 9 months and a real risk of the spread of serious disease.They suggest long term outcomes without offering any solutions, Bb. As it is commonly said, complaining about a problem without proposing a solution is called whining.

Depends on how you define "disability", Lorenzo. If you define it for employment purposes as "any impairment that prevents a person from gaining, holding and doing a job" then many of those "intergenerationally disabled" people would certainly fit the bill. If you were an employer what could you possibly hire a junkie to do that they could actually do?A doctor, your doctor, is not a panel of experts, bobtonnor. Peter's right. If you want other people's money for nothing then you should have to prove to representatives of those people why you should be getting their money.None of which are independent of them, Jess. In order to have a functioning taxpayer funded welfare system with the least amount of rorting possible there has to be an assessment level that represents the taxpayers that is independent of the applicant.Even if the numbers in that article are right, Alpo, it still doesn't help your case. At most those high earning Australians would be paying for 4,378 DSPs (at $20,000 each). There are 830,000 Australians receiving the DSP in Australia, 100,000 more than in 2007. It is utterly unrealistic to think that only 4,378 of that 830,000 are playing the system. The government could save far more money by instituting an independent DSP review process (i.e. one that doesn't rely on your doctor) than it could be going after 75 alleged tax dodgers.What do they contribute that would justify the taxpayers being unable to ask where our money is going and why it is going there, Be Australian?A few hundred, AW? There are 830,000 people on the DSP. If it was only a few hundred it would be at most a rort rate of 0.1%. That would make it by far the least rorted welfare system in recorded history.I have no interest in the arrangements between an employer and an employee because I'm not being forced to pay for any of it, AW. If the employer wants to pay more than the employee is owed then that's nothing to do with me as a taxpayer. If, on the other hand, someone's getting a taxpayer funded DSP then it is my business because I'm paying for it. As a taxpayer and a self employed business owner every cent that I pay in tax is on money I earned and I require value for it.A doctor's certificate? Anyone who's taken a sickie or has employed someone who very obviously has taken one can tell you exactly what a doctor's certificate is worth. Before someone can get a DSP they should be examined by a panel of medical experts who would give an independent evaluation."However, it is equally unfair to brand those who claim DSP as an "army of bludgers".
"The Hawke government made the mistake of relaxing the eligibility criteria for DSP (formerly the Invalid Pension) in the midst of the recession of the early 1990s......In the absence of job-search requirements, many of those who moved onto DSP in the early 1990s never left."
Both of those statements can't be true. Either all or at least the vast majority of those on DSPs are genuinely entitled to it and the differences between the DSP and Newstart aren't in any way relevant OR many of those on DSPs are on DSPs because of the differences between the DSP and Newstart and are bludgers trying to get out of the Newstart requirements/work. Either way the fact that 830,000 people, an increase of over 100,000 in 5 years, are on a DSP is ample evidence that it's far too easy to get it. Does anyone seriously suggest that 100,000 working aged Australians (16 to 64 years) became disabled in the last 5 years, that it's somehow a coincidence that it happened at the same time that an additional 150,000 people started receiving Newstart and that it's a coincidence that there was a decrease in "disabilities" between 2005 and 2007 followed by a distinct increase in "disabilities" following the GFC?There are some very close parallels between the Australian and British experiences. The British Labour government did in 1997 what the Australian Labor government had done several year before. They moved those on the dole to disability payments in order to hide the unemployment rate. Both did it by manipulating the eligibility criteria. The idea that someone who meets the politically lowered standard should stay on the DSP, that they should be grandfathered into the DSP simply because they receive it regardless of their capacity to work, just isn't one that the Australian taxpaying public will accept.
Your aged pension analogy doesn't work, EG. Those who retired on the old age criteria would still meet the new age criteria due to them having aged while retired. Your analogy would only work if they stopped aging when they retired.Your first sentence is debatable, Lori, given that 50% of Australian households receive more in direct payments from government than they pay to government in any form of tax, an ugly and unsustainable time bomb left over from the Howard government. Even if you are right and the Army of Contributors in this country is far larger than the Army of Bludgers that's still no reason to put up with the bludgers. Few people are saying that everyone who gets a DSP is a bludger (a term that has as many definitions as people discussing that subject), but there are undeniably those who are.When you take someone else's money you should have to prove to the representatives of those people why you are getting that money, Debra. If things are as you say they are then your son should have no trouble in proving his eligibility for the DSP. The assessment process isn't a waste of money if it moves people capable of working from the DSP to Newstart even if many of the people assessed, like your son, aren't moved over because they clearly can't work."Hate speech" is nothing more than free speech that offends the people currently making the rules. The people who support "hate speech" laws that outlaw speech are always surprised when they find new people making the rules and the same legal constructs are suddenly being used to restrict their speech. Those with an inclination to create mechanisms to bind others should be very careful about what they create because they themselves can be bound too."Sod off then" is the perfectly valid response to what you have written. You want to leave, Downwiththatsortofthing? That's fine. I hope that you're not expecting us to be too upset about it. You blow in and when you don't like it you blow right back out again. We Australians are happy for that to happen, but what we are almost never happy about is when blow ins like yourself show up and start complaining about how things are and have been since before you blew in. Over 8 years ago puts your arrival during the Howard years. That's well before the Labor government relaxed the border controls and well after he brought in his post 9/11 criminal legislation. If you don't like how we do things then why did you move here to begin with?1. Asylum seekers who originated on the other side of the planet stopped fleeing persecution while they were still thousands of kilometres away. By the time they get to Australia they stopped fleeing from something and started travelling to somewhere (here) quite some time ago.

2. Doubling our official resettlement numbers would be useless if we instituted the policies you want, Alpo, because the number of asylum applications would far, far, far outstrip the number of places on offer. In the last five calendar years, 2009 to 2013, there were over 70,000 asylum claims made in Australia at a time when only 68,750 resettlement places were available, that at a time when official government policy was intended to dissuade asylum seekers arrivals, albeit incompetently applied policy. Had the increase of asylum claims not been brought down by the Rudd and Abbott policies then the number of asylum claims made in Australia would have exceeded 50,000 per year by the end of the 2015 calendar year, far exceeding your proposed resettlement quota of 27,500 places. Even if asylum seekers somehow decided to not come to Australia and only the 27,500 resettlement places were filled you would be looking at the resettlement of over 400,000 unskilled immigrants into the Australian economy by 2030, many of whom would remain on welfare for years on end. If the asylum seekers did come then that number increases to 750,000. That would have a significant impact on Australia's economy. 
  
3. What Hockey tells investors and what he tells the domestic audience is the difference between long term and short term risk. High levels of sovereign debt is no problem if you happen to be investing with the next 10 years in mind, but a large problem if you happen to plan on living here for the next 50 years.This "The Vatican runs the country" stuff was old and tired when it was used against JFK in the 1960s. It was well past its use by date then and it hasn't got any newer or more relevant in the last half century.Singy: a word used almost exclusively by people who want what you have and get weepy when you won't quietly hand it over. 
If countries like Lebanon and Jordan don't wish to close their borders then that's their choice. Just because someone else is or isn't doing something is no reason for you to follow along. The argument that we should have open borders because Lebanon and Jordan do is no different from a child saying "But everyone else is doing it". To use the oft used Mother's line "If everyone else jumped off a cliff would you do it too?" The answer is no, you wouldn't. The behaviour of a country's government should be based on what they judge is best for the country, not on what other countries are doing. According to the World Bank in a report for the UN the wave of Syrian refugees into Lebanon cut Lebanese GDP growth by 2.85% per year in 2012, 2013 and 2014 resulting in a cumulative loss of $7.5 billion, will double unemployment to above 20% and will widen Lebanon's budgetary deficit by $2.6 billion. In Jordan the situation is similar, with the refugees costing 1.8% of Jordan's GDP in  2013 and are expected to cost 2.4% in 2014. The Lebanese and Jordanian experience is not one that would in any way benefit Australia. Obviously the asylum seeker advocates will say that we don't get the number that Lebanon or Jordan gets so there wouldn't be any such adverse impact on Australia. Let us look at the numbers and see. In the last five calendar years, 2009 to 2013, there were over 70,000 asylum claims made in Australia. That's more than in the entire preceding fifteen years. Had the increase of asylum claims under Labor not been brought down by the Rudd and Abbott policies then the number of asylum claims made in Australia would have exceeded 50,000 per year by 2015. At that rate it would take only a decade for half a million asylum claims to be made. They may not be Lebanon's or Jordan's numbers, but they wouldn't be without considerable economic impact.Ann, a national government has one primary responsibility and one only- to protect the interests of their own country. That should be the one determining test applied to each and every one of their actions. If a course of action is in the interests of the country then it should be done.  If a course of action is against the interests of the country then it should not be done even if it benefits those in other countries. If a course of action isn't in the interests of the country, but isn't against those interests then the government has some wiggle room in its decision. Taking hundreds of thousands of refugees every decade is against Australia's best interests which is why we take far fewer and take measures to ensure that we don't get hundreds of thousands every decade. By funding other countries like Lebanon and Jordan while not taking many of the refugees the Australian government is doing its job. It's taking a course of action that doesn't harm Australia while avoiding action that does harm Australia.You don't take claims before the ICC any more than you do before any other criminal court. The Office of the Prosecutor for the International Criminal Court presents cases, just like the Office of the Commonwealth Director of Public Prosecutions does in Australian courts when it comes to the same crimes under Australian law. Claims just aren't good enough to make the cut when it comes to forming a brief. 
Even if a legal argument could be made that the government's actions are covered by the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court* the ICC has better things to do. It has never even investigated a country for immigration related matters and probably never will. 

*The crimes listed in Articles 6, 7, 8 and 8bis were never intended to force signatory countries to accept irregular immigration. The oft referred to crimes, Deportation or forcible transfer of population under Article 7(d) and Imprisonment or other severe deprivation of physical liberty in violation of fundamental rules of international law under Article 7(e), were always intended to outlaw things like the destruction of villages and repeats of the Armenian Genocide [Article 7(d)] and the Nazi ghettos [Article 7(e)].Why would Japan or South Korea look at what's happened across the rest of the developed world and do what the rest of us have done? The Japanese government is doing what it considers best for Japan and South Korean the government is doing what it considers best for South Korea. Neither government is sacrificing the best interests of their own people for the interests of others. That's how national governments are supposed to behave.sean, we stop the millions by stopping the tens of thousands, by proving that we have the strength and courage of our convictions and by proving that coming to Australia won't benefit those who might seek to come here. Asylum seekers have a choice as to where they might try to travel to. They will travel to those places where they think that they will get the best deal. If they think that they will get a better deal elsewhere then they won't come here.Not a single white Zimbabwean was accepted by Australia as a refugee, Handoyo. Not one. They came through other visas, mainly through the skilled immigrant system. None of them claimed asylum so their presence has no bearing on the circumstances of those who did. 
The refugees brought over from Eastern Europe, such as the 4,000 from Kosovo in 1999 were brought by the Australian government and were on temporary visas so that situation has no bearing on the current situation in which uninvited asylum seekers are demanding permanent residence.  
It's useless to try to claim that Australia hasn't got an asylum seeker problem by comparing the number that come here to the number that go to Europe. Any case that argues that we should ignore what's happening here because more is happening elsewhere can be dismissed without consideration because it fails to address the situation at all. The same applies to your last argument, that Australians have to accept asylum seekers because we might be asylum seekers ourselves one day. If you can't form an argument based on the facts currently in existence than all you're doing is admitting that you don't have an argument at all.Sovereign rites? What rites (social customs or ceremonial practices) would you be referring to, silver fox? If you instead mean sovereign rights then the sovereign right is the legal power of a government or head of state to do what's necessary in order to govern, such as creating and/or administering laws, as it sees fit."International obligations" is merely the term given to the voluntary agreements that Australia has signed up to. Most aren't enforced or enforceable in any real way.As experts in law they would be well aware that Australian federal legislation trumps the conventions that Australia has signed up to, splod1. If a convention conflicts with the legislation then the convention is not legally binding. The High Court has been absolutely unambiguous about it.Australian law isn't based on the Magna Carta, it's based on common law, a system of law so old that no one knows when it began, a system that was brought into its modern state by Henry the Second in the 12th century, before the creation of the Magna Carta. When it was created doesn't matter as, unlike the Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees, it constantly changes to keep up with changing circumstances.We already are sending money for that purpose, Ann. It's part of our foreign aid budget. 
We don't need to get rid of a basic respect for human dignity, we need to put in place some basic procedures so that respect can't be exploited.
Look at the polls again, Alpo. The rise in the expected LNP vote is at the expense of PUP, not Labor. The preferences of PUP voters will be far less significant if many former PUP voters will be voting directly for the LNP.They have reported on all boats that have attempted to leave Indonesia, but have been prevented, have left for Australia and have been returned and that have come to Australia, Ann. Having reported those ones what makes you think that there are others that the government hasn't reported?You are correct about the number assessed as refugees, Robert. While most asylum seekers (about 70%) were assessed to be refugees only 40% of those processed as part of the Pacific Solution were given Australian protection visas. The rest were either resettled elsewhere (the current government's policy) or were sent home. Where your argument fails is where you argue that coming uninvited to Australia and being sent home are the only two options. A third option, being sent somewhere other than your two destinations, exists.Counting your chickens before they hatch again, Alpo? I recall that before the last election you were predicting a returned Labor government under Rudd due to your prediction that Abbot was "unelectable". If you were right then then we wouldn't be having this discussion now.It's two years out from the election. As the Queensland polls have shown a lot can happen in two years. It's simply far, far too early to be making any predictions about 2016 voting intentions. Your prediction is based on wishful thinking, not hard data.The vast majority of current asylum seekers haven't been assessed at all, FDM and the success rate under the last Liberal government (Howard's) was 70%, not 95%.Our politicians aren't embarrassed by their policies because they don't think that there's anything wrong with them and because most Australians support them. Most Australians believe that Australians should be making Australian laws and don't believe that undemocratic bureaucrats at the UN can make valid laws that Australia has to obey.Your entire argument is based around the idea that there are bad laws and good laws and that the bad laws should be changed and the good laws left alone. The problem is that your argument is based solely around your own opinions. You're claiming the right to decide which laws are the good ones and which ones are the bad ones. Once again, sorry Mark, but you don't get to make that decision. That's the Parliament's job.The Parliament has the right and ability to change the law specifically so that the law can be changed when circumstances change, Mike. Sorry mate, but you don't get to decide when the Parliament gets to use that power nor do you get to decide when it is against "the rules" (whatever they are). 
The people don't make the law and never did. It's primarily made by the same body that can change it- the Parliament.If the minister can convince his/her colleagues in the Parliament to amend the legislation then he/she is obeying the law. That's how the law works. It's how the law is supposed to work.Norm, in the cases in question the legality of the policies were legally untested. There was no clear breach of the law because the law was unclear. That's why they were dealt with by the High Court. The High Court rarely hears cases on matters that it's previously dealt with. If it is a matter that has been dealt with previously then the High Court usually wont grant Special Leave to Appeal. Once the legality of the policies has been tested and the point of law under contention has been settled then the government has the option to either abandon the policies or convince the Parliament to amend the legislation that the policies are in breach of. As I stated this is how the system is supposed to work.Haven't travelled much have you, bobtonner? There's a lot of desert out there. It's not about how much space you have, it's about how many people that space can support.There already is bipartisanship, Alpo. It doesn't matter that it's not the one that you would prefer because it is the one that most Australians prefer.This isn't a new situation, Jerry, nor is it one that is unique to Australia. Most countries have their own immigration laws and/or procedures that contradict the Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees which is why none of them are making too much of a fuss about ours. 
You protect yourself through being stronger than those who would seek to harm you. The idea that if we just go along with the UN on everything no one will want to harm us is an argument often used by the far left, but is one entirely without merit.The property rights argument won't work, dr dig, because although the far left wouldn't be happy for such things to happen when it comes to their property they are more than happy to have it done with property belonging to the rest of us. It's the same attitude that was publicly mocked when it was used at the Occupy rallies, the idea that all private property has to be communal and used for "the common good" except for their private property.The Parliament making or amending laws to suit the situation as it sees it is how it's supposed to work. If the courts rule the government's policies contrary to the legislation and the government continues with those policies without a change to the legislation then that's a problem. If they can convince the Parliament to change the legislation then it's not a problem. Once the legislation is amended then the policies will be lawful. You're not pointing out a flaw in the government's actions, you're just pointing out how interactions between the Parliament, the government and the courts work. It's always been this way because it's how the Westminster system is supposed to be.
