1200 eh Alfie?  Yesterday it was 1000 so what will it be tomorrow , 10,000? 
FYI 100 died on 28th Sept when a  vessel sank close to Indonesia but I won't be so callous as to lay blame on the Libs.. 
Thanks Mike and bravo for highlighting the inhumane policy that is Operation Sovereign Borders. Morrison's new 49% chance of torture standard for "complementary protection" is the most draconian and reprehensible part of the Abbott govt's asylum seeker policy. 
As was stated and true to form the Abbott opposition opposed the recommendations of the Houston committee, like the Malaysia swap deal. This would have been the most humane and effective means of curbing boat arrivals, in fact during the early part of 2010 while the policy was still in the discussion phase boat arrivals actually dropped for the first time since 2001. 
It's all there in B&amp;W on the parliamentary website too, the page is  called
"Boat arrivals since 1976" and here are the numbers: 2009?10 -- 117     2010?11 --  89"The highest interest rate during the Hawke years was 19%; the highest under Keating was 7.9%. But when Howard was treasurer in the Fraser government, interest rates peaked at 21.4% in April 1982. " 
Ref: "The Economic Myths of Peter Costello" - Andrew Charlton  The Monthly  October 2007 
Costello only left a $19.b surplus after a $314b mining boom windfall and selling off $72b worth oif commonwealth assets"Abbott's version " being,  ignoring repeated warnings about security staff on Manus Island, forcing DIAC staff to lie to refugees about their resettlement prospects and causing a riot that led to the death of Reza Berati. 
"When asked about international policy on global warming and carbon emissions, 63% of Australians say the government should be taking a leadership role on reducing carbon emissions. Only 28% say it should wait for an international consensus, and a fraction (7%) say the government should do nothing."
Ref: "Climate change, 2014 Lowy Institute Poll finds 4 June 2014"Mr Barnes this is not a re-invention, it's more like a dodgy renovation , a lick of paint to hide the cracks and keep the walls from crumbling. The 37 media spin-meisters in the office of PMAC must be working triple overtime to improve Abbott's image, but their spin hides the reality that his stance against Putin and Russia is not brave, just more of the same diversion &amp; distraction tactics.
Rudd , Gillard, Howard or Turnbull would have acted exactly the same way, especially if their poll numbers were as bad as Abbott's. Australia has no real economic ties with Russia and we don't rely on their oil and gas supplies as western Europe does, winter is coming in Europe and that is why their response seems more restrained in comparison.
"The highest interest rate during the Hawke years was 19%; the highest under Keating was 7.9%. But when Howard was treasurer in the Fraser government, interest rates peaked at 21.4% in April 1982. " 
Ref: "The Economic Myths of Peter Costello" - Andrew Charlton  The Monthly  October 2007Just as you say Forrest , the divide is between the left who think rationally, and the right who can't or won't....Well spoken Jonathon, but Abbott is incapable of speaking from the heart, only the empty space where he thinks a heart should be.  
Where is Abbott's compassion for the 157 Sri Lankan's still bobbing around on a Customs vessel in the Indian Ocean somewhere without any contact with loved ones? Or the victims of the Manus Island riot like Reza Berati, a riot directly caused by the actions of this govt, ignoring repeated warnings about security and staff on Manus Island, and forcing DIAC staff to lie to refugees about their resettlement prospects.
There are 99 media spin-meisters in the DIAC and 37 in the office of PMAC, all working triple overtime to improve Abbott and his govt's image, but their spin hides the reality that there is nothing brave about his stance against Putin and Russia, just more of the same diversion &amp; distraction tactics.
OMG, Abbott did something right for once, let's shout it from the rooftops ! Putin's actions are deplorable and he would certainly be the 'baddy' at G20 if he manages the journey to Brisbane, but let's not kid ourselves that he makes Abbott a 'goody'. He is a rank political opportunist and his recent hard line against Russia is merely a diversion &amp; distraction tactic and not particularly brave. Rudd , Gillard, Howard or Turnbull would have done exactly the same, especially if their poll numbers were as bad as Abbott's. 
Australia has no real economic ties with Russia and we don't rely on their oil and gas supplies the way western Europe does, winter is coming in Europe and that is why their response has been more restrained.Any reputable (non IPA) economist will tell you that the high dollar has damaged manufacturing and mining woes are due to a lull between the end of the mining investment phase and the start of the production phase. 
As for your claim of "ridiculous wages" wages growth has in fact slipped below the CPI. ABS director of the WPI (wage price index) Robin Ashburn had this to say in Feb:
"The growth in wages over the last year of 2.6 per cent, seasonally adjusted, was the smallest through the year rise since the series commenced in 1997,"Such abusive and racist behaviour should never be tolerated, but abusive language does not always have to be in the form of racism. Language that specifically targets a minority, be it racism, ageism, homophobia, or even nationalism must be vigorously discouraged.Thanks Greg, and we can see the continual false narrative of this govt regarding the cost of living,  whether it be the impact of the carbon tax on electricity prices, or the impact of their own horror budget. Hockey intentionally omitted a vital table  called "detailed family outcomes" from the budget  and when Fairfax dared to access through FOI and publish the data. treasurer Hockey accused them of "malevolence"!
This is a govt of malevolent bullies who before the election promised "no cuts to education, no cuts to health, no change to pensions, no change to the GST and no cuts to the ABC or SBS." yet what it has delivered in govt are cuts to education, cuts to health, changes to pensions, and cuts to the ABC &amp; SBS.

When asked about international policy on global warming and carbon emissions, 63% of Australians say the government should be taking a leadership role on reducing carbon emissions. Only 28% say it should wait for an international consensus, and a fraction (7%) say the government should do nothing."
Ref: "Climate change, 2014 Lowy Institute Poll finds 4 June 2014"Alfie another day another policy failure, Abbott and Brandis have finally been forced to give up their absurd (just to say thanks Blot) changes to the RDA  Sect 18C .Senator George Georges in 1986,  Graeme Campbell MP in 1988, Amanda Fazio MP in 2010
The Abbott govt does not need to hit the reset button, but the electorate certainly does. We need an election now to remove a govt that promised to "restore accountability and improve transparency measures to be more accountable" and in govt threw accountability and transparency out the window. We have an immigration dept that has become a need-to-know dept where apparently voters don't need-to-know anything. We now have a budget with the vital table "Detailed family outcomes" removed. and when a Fairfax dares to compiles the data through FOI and publishes it, we have treasurer Hockey accuse them of "malevolence"! 
This is a govt of malevolent bullies who promised "no cuts to education, no cuts to health, no change to pensions, no change to the GST and no cuts to the ABC or SBS." and has delivered cuts to education, cuts to health, changes to pensions, and cuts to the ABC &amp; SBS."The Australian economy is not in trouble, there's no crisis at all in the Australian economy."  Joe Hockey finally telling it like it is on 27/07/14Frank you just want to join Abbott and co and invent a crisis and blame Labor for saving us from recession. You ignore the words of your own Treasurer Joe Hockey who  (when he thought nobody was listening) fully admitted  that there is no budget crisis! 
Andie, what drives the government fiscal position? The E.C.O.N.O.M.Y."The Australian economy is not in trouble, there's no crisis at all in the Australian economy."
Joe Hockey telling the Kiwis our debt is a non-issue, 27/07/14"The Australian economy is not in trouble, there's no crisis at all in the Australian economy." 
 Joe Hockey finally tells the truth  27/07/14Give me a break, if anything the budget position has deteriorated since the Liebrals took office.  They have doubled both the debt limit and the budget deficit. 
It's another day and yet another policy failure for this disaster of a govt, Abbott and Brandis have finally been forced to give up their absurd (just to say thanks A.Blot) changes to the RDA  Sect 18C.
And not before timeSo where do you think all those guns, tanks and SAM missiles come from , the tooth fairy?I believe you are overstating the chances of a revised Sino-Russian alliance as they no longer have a common ideology, and any bonds of solidarity have been replaced entirely by mistrust. China is now a superpower but it has become reliant on the west for the bulk of its trade as the Chinese Communist party embraced capitalism and a free market. 
On the other hand Putin and his cronies only abuse the system, forming a one party pseudo-democracy that demonises viable opposition and crushes all forms of dissent. They also utilise the worst  aspects of the capitalist system, using a corrupt judiciary to a imprison non-compliant  business leaders and assist in hostile take-overs, purely for the benefit of Putin and his fellow oligarchs.Peter, if anyone decides the US elections it is Rupert Murdoch and his Fox affiliates,  Obama is ten times the leader Putin  is.
Paid for by we taxpayers, to the tune of $5b per annum...Morrison's recent behaviour has been even more appalling than usual, he cannot continue to deny that children in detention are suffering to the point of self-harm.  His dismissive attitude toward the high commissioner is also laughable, considering the fact that Gillian Triggs is a law professor, while brainiac Morrison has a degree in applied science.Abetz says : "When jobs are sparse, it means that you've got to apply for more jobs to get a job."
So less jobs equal more jobs , next they'll be telling us that  freedom is slavery &amp; ignorance is strength. 
For Abetz to put forward such a concept borders on the insane, and a question I've long pondered is: Are the right really so utterly clueless or do they just think they can get away such  willful ignorance?
Maybe it's a bit of both..Forrest you may think it's censorship but if you have been "moderated" it's for a very good reason.
The ABC house rules are quite simple and fairForrest, in the 2012-13 budget Labor achieved an all time record reduction in public spending of 3% in real terms and 1% in cash terms...
 
It was bad enough when Abbott &amp; co used their trademark  militaristic sloganism to demean the process of repatriation of the victims of MH17 and their possessions. Now it seems that "Operation Bring them home", has entered a new phase, called "Operation Spineless Back-down."   
While Obama and the leaders of Europe are united in calls for tough economic sanctions against Russia , all Abbott has to say now is: 
"At the moment our focus is not on sanctions - our focus is on bringing home our dead."
This is typical of the weak-willed neo-con behaviour from Abbott and this govt, unless you are poor or on welfare they are all-bark-and-no-bite..Putin is heavily involved with the Russian oil and gas economy so sanctions against those interests will hurt him personally, and the value of our trade with Russia is miniscule when viewed against our total GDP.  I was criticising Abbott's double standards after being so vocal critic in the beginning and now he seems to be cowering 
What's next is Abbott's "Operation Bring them home" entering a new phase, called "Operation Spineless Back-down."Abbott &amp; co used their trademark  militaristic sloganism to demean the process of repatriation of the victims of MH17 and their possessions, but now while Obama and the leaders of Europe are united in calls for tough economic sanctions against Russia , all Abbott has to say is:
"At the moment our focus is not on sanctions - our focus is on bringing home our dead."
This is typical of the weak-willed behaviour from Abbott and this govt, unless you are poor or on welfare they are all-bark-and-no-bite..
Andie stop spreading that old chestnut... Fact Check proved that it is not just ALP debt, only 75% of the current gross debt accrued during Labor's time in government."Using either gross debt or net debt, Mr Hockey's claim that at the moment Australia is paying a billion dollars every month in interest on the debt that Labor left is exaggerated."
Fact check: "Is the Government paying $1 billion a month in interest on its debt? "  Thu 12 Jun 2014,Yes we can both "extract selectively" , but my quote was the 100% truth, while you excluded the next line to  make a lie ...
"So "at the moment", the monthly interest bill on gross debt is over $1 billion. Seventy-five per cent of the current gross debt accrued during Labor's time in government. "Rod Cameron's analysis is spot on, we know that political ideology has become an endangered species when a populist liar like Abbott can be elected PM. 
To be an effective opposition Labor must stay true to their promises and shine a very bright light on the lies and broken promises of this PM and govt. They must combat the lies and distortions of the right wing shock jocks and MSM, not to mention the 37 full time media spin-meisters in Abbott's office.Abbott &amp; co's ploy of kicking the unemployed follows on from the underlying theme of the May budget, ie lifters v leaners.
This is part of the typically  ignorant and over-simplistic right wing rhetoric designed to paint any and all welfare recipients as "bludgers", including the disabled and carers.  
They cannot seriously expect the unemployed to "work for the dole" for either 15 or 25 hours per week whilst applying for 10 jobs per week, and all for a measly $225 pw. 
When are they supposed to find time to prepare for and attend an actual interview? 

Such dopey ideas as Medibank, free university, establishing diplomatic relations with China and the first trade practices act. He also outlawed discrimination against indigenous people and drafted the first Aboriginal Land Rights Bill. 
FYI Whitlam left Fraser a budget surplus and the Khemlani loan was going to fund infrastructure projects...
So by your own admission Abbott has broken at least half of his election promises, so far.."No cuts to education, no cuts to health, no change to pensions, no change to the GST and no cuts to the ABC or SBS." 
Labor behaving like any responsible opposition and voting in line with their mandate, for a price oin carbon via an ETS, and keeping the mining tax in place. Then we have a Coalition govt budget that will see cuts to education, health, pensions, the ABC and SBS.This is how Albo started that very speech! -  "I love the Labor Party."I couldn't agree more Paula , Abbott is totally incapable of displaying genuine leadership because that would require vision, and for him to actually stand for something, when his only talents seems to lie in standing against something.  Abbott has never missed an opportunity to display cheap political opportunism, like militarising issues like border protection and the MH17 disaster. "Operation bring them home" must go down as the epitome of tackiness shown by any Australian PM. Abbott has not shown any consistency in  his policy positions either, from "Paid parental leave over this govt's dead body" to fully supporting it against the will of his own treasurer  and most coalition MPs. But Abbott saves his best policy gymnastics to climate change policy to the point where even Malcolm Turnbull dropped him in it by recalling Abbott's own words  'Mate, mate, I know I am a bit of a weather vane on this, but...'
He sure is...Newspoll budget survey on 19th May showed that, 48% thought it would be bad for the economy -  39% thought it would be good for the economy.
Are voters obstructionist now?Abbott and Hockey have no-one to blame but themselves by trying to shove through such an inequitable budget, they are so out of touch that they can't even comprehend why there was such a  negative reaction. They continue to alienate the public by insulting our intelligence, blaming everything on "an obstructionist senate" or dismissing opposition to the budget as "whinging". Their lauding of the rich as "lifters" and denouncement of the poor as "leaners" uses outrageous comparisons of net income, and  ignores the fact that 37% of tax revenue comes from indirect taxation.
WS last time I checked Shorten was not in govt, you seem to be in a rapidly shrinking minority, Newspoll 19/05/14 Budget Poll 48% said it will be bad for the economy, only 39% said it will be good  for the economy..
"Raising the debt ceiling is not raising the debt."
They have raised the debt faster than labor, within three months they had doubled the deficit.
Three hundred and fourteen billion was peanuts to John HowardWhat we see now is the real Joe Hockey, Mr Nice Joe was a facade made for TV news, easy to maintain  whilst in opposition. In govt he had a job to design a budget and he has failed dismally, yet he refuses to take responsibility for his failure, blaming "an obstructionist senate" and dismissing opposition to the budget as "whinging".
Time for either Sloppy Joe or the voters to hit cntl-alt-del"Using either gross debt or net debt, Mr Hockey's claim that at the moment Australia is paying a billion dollars every month in interest on the debt that Labor left is exaggerated."
Ref: ABC Fact check: "Is the Government paying $1 billion a month in interest on its debt?"Andie you ignore the fact that. .. "Seventy-five per cent of the current gross debt accrued during Labor's time in government."Alfie you continue to use the same tired old non-argument that ignores the fact that 37% of all govt revenue comes from indirect taxation, that everyone pays..Prof Stilwell and the IMF have shown that income inequality only benefits the rich and it is a problem that will only get worse. Pikkety's theory makes good sense when you look at the basic premise "When capital growth exceeds economic growth, wealth will concentrate amongst the owners of capital." I would prefer to use a more simple phrase, "You need to have money in order to make money"
Of course Abbott and Hockey will always try to downplay income inequality in Australia , otherwise they would have to justify their appalling attitude toward the poor that shows in their budget. The disproportionate effects of the fuel excise and cuts to welfare are in stark contrast to their continued support for middle/upper class welfare like the PPL private health care rebate and super fund contribution tax concessions.
Hockey's lauding of the rich as "lifters" and denouncement of the poor as "leaners" uses outrageous comparisons of net income, and  ignores the fact that 37% of tax revenue income comes from indirect taxation, not just income tax.
Joe Hockey's threats to "implement an austerity budget" and comments on the fuel excise really show just how desperately out of touch he is. The poor do drive cars, that's how they have to get around. They drive more frugally , don't own V8 gas guzzlers and don't own more than one car, unlike most middle and upper income earners.Abbott's changes to the PBS and the $20b Medical Research fund are just like his Direct Action Plan, picking industry winners and then giving them bundles of our cash, little-or-no questions asked. I can just see Abbott's key Pollie Pedal supporters along for the ride too , Amgen, Pfizer, Alphapharm, Roche and pharmaceutical industry group Medicines AustraliaBy Labor's 'clean energy council' I gather you mean the Clean Energy Finance Corporation that is quite profitable , actually 
"The CEFC is earning an average return of 7 per cent, which is above the government's cost of funds at 3.5 per cent. Its abolition would result in at least $200 million of lost annual revenue to the government.."
Ref: "Clean Energy Finance Corporation faces growing business demand, but its future still in doubt"
Tim Flannery's 'hot rocks' project" is "a goer" aka Geodynamics' Habanero 1MWe  geothermal plant trial , which concluded in 2013 and by all reliable accounts the trial was a total success

How much would you like me to pay for your visits to the GP?
If I may, you would pay infinitely less than the $50K to be paid to rich women to have a baby under Abbott's PPL.
1:"Encourage more women to have children" 
You cannot seriously believe that it will lead to such an increase in childbirths that it will ease the burden for future generations?
As Smirkin' Pete once said "One for mum, one for dad and one for the country"
2 : " it will reduce the pay gap "
It may reduce the pay gap between the genders, but without a means test there will be a marked increase in the gap between rich and poor. 

"you can sensibly argue that it reflects an investment, not a cash giveaway." 
An investment you say, Seriously,.......? I can imagine paying rich wives $50K to have babies will boost profits in the areas of fashion, jewellery, cosmetic and cosmetic surgery.. 
Abbott &amp; Hockey are so clueless and egotistical  that they still refuse to see, (or admit to seeing) that the voters are onto them. They may continue their denial and bluff and bluster. but the people understand the true aim of the GP co payment is to dismantle Medicare. They also understand their budget unfairly and disproportionately targets low income earners, but they refuse to back down on GP co-payments and cuts to pensions, public health and education. Joe Hockey's comments today on ABC Radio about the relative impact of the fuel excise really show just how desperately out of touch he is. 
"The people that actually pay the most are higher income people, with an increase in fuel excise and yet, the Labor Party and the Greens are opposing it. They say you've got to have wealthier people or middle-income people pay more. Well, change to the fuel excise does exactly that; the poorest people either don't have cars or actually don't drive very far in many cases."
Joe the poor do drive cars mate, that's how they get around, they simply drive more frugally , don't own V8 gas guzzlers and don't own more than one car, unlike most middle and upper income earners.It is not politicians' role to have industry plans., here's some gems from " 
Really WS , then why last year did the coalition constantly last year that it was? "Our Plan", "Real Solutions"  and "The Coalition's policy to boost manufacturing" talk about little else, like: 
"Australian manufacturing also needs a long term strategy built on stability, and which recognises our strengths and drives innovation. The Coalition's Real Solutions Plan will build a diverse 5-pillar economy to build on our strengths, including in manufacturing."Two journos have resigned from Russia Today recently,  Russia Today' anchor Liz Wahlin  resigned on air saying "I cannot be part of a network funded by the Russian government that whitewashes the actions of Putin. It's about promoting a Putinist agenda. It's also about bashing America.
 Sara Firth tweeted after her resignation "I resigned from RT today. I have huge respect for many in the team, but I'm for the truth,"  .

The sad reality is that secular democracy does not seem workable in Islamic states, and perhaps they need dictators like Assad or Gaddafi just to maintain stability. We have witnessed sectarian divisions manifest no matter which side has majority, the minority feels persecuted and the age old grievances bubble over. 
"The most recent election under Syria's reformed constitution saw him overwhelmingly elected directly to the presidency." 
UK Foreign Secretary William Hague disagrees.: "Assad lacked legitimacy before this election, and he lacks it afterwards. This election bore no relation to genuine democracy," Hague said in a statement."
US State Department spokeswoman Marie Harf: "Today's presidential election in Syria is a disgrace, Bashar al-Assad has no more credibility today than he did yesterday" 
John you have not asked the really important question.. Who owns that data and what stops a govt from passing legislation that woulds allow Telcos to alleviate costs by making it available for sale?  
The real issue at stake here is who owns that data, and what would stop a govt from passing legislation that woulds allow Telcos to alleviate any costs incurred by making some of it available for sale?  
Poor old Malcolm-in-the-middle is the lone voice of reason in a party that long ago lost all sense of reason, seems he's the only one in govt one who knows what he's talking about..
Watching our technophobe PM and AG constantly stumble over this relatively straightforward policy area has to make one question their competence, it shows why Brandis might need such a big library."The actions of US and Australia has very much wounded the strategic partnership with Indonesia, a fellow democratic state, I also regret the statement by the Australian PM that belittles this surveillance to Indonesia, as if no wrong has been done." Tweet from SBY last November
"Their unilateral policy coerces asylum seekers, threatens them and violates their human rights ? and the policy doesn't bear fruit,'' Indonesian Foreign Minister Marty Natalegawa, last month.

The Brandis amendments to Section 18D would have removed the test of "being done reasonably and in good faith" it seems that some conservatives want the "freedom" to be unreasonable and to act in bad faith 
Mark I don't know about you, but from my perspective when someone asks "do you believe that?" the answer given is yes or no, either confirming or denying the proposition given.  
Abetz believed it, so get over it......Abbott &amp; co don't know when to hold em or fold em or, they don't even seem to know what card game they are playing. We have a PM and Attorney General who want to legislate for Telcos to keep two years worth of "metadata" when neither of them have a clue what metadata is.  We also see the type of historical revisionism made popular by John Howard, with Eric Abetz having his turn swinging the truth pendulum, from "I think the studies, and I think they date back from the 1950s, assert that there is a link between abortion and breast cancer" to  "Let me make this point very, very clear: at no stage have I made a link between abortion and breast cancer"
Then there was the RDA double back-flip with national security spin,  designed purely to excuse the back-down of their racist agenda, changing RDA sect 18C &amp; 18D to appease A.Blot, using the smokescreen of the "interests of national security.
Someone really should tell Tone &amp; George that Islam is a religion, not a race...A report by the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR),  said that as of 6 August, 1,843 Palestinians had been killed and 66 Israelis and one Thai national since Israel launched Operation Protective Edge on 8 July. Of those Palestinians, the status of 279 could not be identified, at least 1,354 were civilians, including 415 children and 214 women.GDP figures mean nothing when the economic system is corrupt..If Russia's GDP increased 10 fold under Putin, why are the people not 10 times richer? Why are so many Russians leaving?  Rosstat data shows 186,382 moved abroad in 2013 and 122,751 in 2012, compared to 36,774 in 2011 and 33,578 in 2010."does this mean that only the left can claim to have some passion and empathy?
Yes it does, case in point the Abbott / Hockey "Budget" .."real proof not grainy US satellite images that later turned out to be in Ukraine."
Yes indeed MH17 was shot down near Damask,  Ukraine and Russia's involvement is indisputable. The evidence of the shredded fuselage section that was found before it was removed by Russian back separatists is proof that it  was a Russian BUK SAM in the hands of Ukrainan rebels,correction s.b - near Donetsk, UkrainePeter , even if that were true, are you seriously suggesting that bullets are more clever? 
Peter  as you should know, even in 2014 the German army is not allowed to cross any border..."It was not for the Senate to run the country"  ... Try telling that to Malcolm Fraser...Forrest there is more to democracy than just an election result. The elected govt has to keep the commitments it made to the electorate, not just use weasel words or lame excuses like "Labor ate my budget on election night, honest.....". 

Rudd did not keep fuel watch or grocery watch because the oil and supermarket giants. refused to co-operate . Labor has always admitted the budget was an issue, but only the coalition conflated it into an "emergency" when we have one of the lowest debts in the OECDPeter and Jackie,  I think the senate control question should separate the major parties regarding who should have control of both houses. I'm sure that voters would trust Labor more with that sort of power, they certainly didn't trust Abbott with a majority in the senate, and that's why we now have an un-house-trained PUP pooping all over both houses.. I believe that micro-parties (of one) should be banned, it is a deceptive term and the less informed might assume there is a power base of members, when in reality there is just Ricky Muir, the motoring enthusiast (nb singular) 
One person does not a party make.It does indeed come as a surprise considering recent polling has Labor leading Coalition 54-46 TPPAJC , try opening your eyes and actually looking at credible evidence,
- Photo of a smoke plume from a missile launched from a rebel controlled area.
- Photo of a BUK missile system with only three of four missiles, on the back of a truck travelling back into Russia
The Ukrainian rebels actions also incriminate themselves 
- Refusing investigators access to the crash site 
- Refusing access to the black box data recorders 
- Holding the bodies of victims to ransom.Putin is certainly guilty of stupidity and negligence by giving Ukranian rebels access to such military hardware and the knowledge how to operate it. 
However, the shooting down of MH17 can never be more than the culmination of events leading to a horrible mistake, as even the most strident Ukrainian militants would know that shooting down commercial aircraft would never be in their best interests .
We should let Putin come so that we can march the streets to voice our protest and outrage at his rank stupidity.
Sure but let's deal with the obscenity of one war driven empire at a time, this month it's Russia's turnSeriously? Well how about Chechnya, Georgia and now it seems, Ukraine. 
Mike yes indeed, and that was the carbon tax at work. In 2011 we were number 1, but the morons in Canberra will have us back there soon  enough.
Graeme Wood had already sold Wotif when he made the donation as a private citizenJohn as usual you post totally unsubstantiated claims, Greenpeace would never accept a single dime from the Koch bros', unless they managed to sneak it through one of their myriad of foundations. They have even produced a film "Koch Brothers Exposed"  that exposes the Koch's funding of the AGW  denial lobby,Peter, thanks for admitting that the  denial lobby is "on the other side of the debate" to the science..John it is untrue and that is why Greenpeace has said nothing.
John it has never been "disclosed by the Koch Bros" because it never happened.
Why do I constantly have to remind you not to make such unsubstantiated claims ?
John the Koch Bros have never made a donation to Greenpeace and have never made such a disclosure."The rate of atmospheric warming over the past 15 years (1998-2012) is +0.05 [-0.05 to +0.15] degrees C per decade. "
AR5 WG1 Summary for Policy Makers (approved 27 Sep 2013)
"The linear trend from August 1997 (in the middle of an exceptionally strong El Nino) to August 2012 (coming at the tail end of a double-dip La Nina) is about 0.03 deg C/decade, amounting to a temperature increase of 0.05 deg C over that period, but equally we could calculate the linear trend from 1999, during the subsequent La Nina, and show a more substantial warming."
Met Office in the Media: 14 October 2012
"The period 2001-2010 (0.477 deg C above 1961-90 mean) was 0.217 deg C warmer than the 1991-2000 decade (0.270 deg C above the 1961-90 average"
Global Temperature Record - Phil Jones CRUJohn as I have told you many times that is a false quote from the Global Warming Policy Foundation "the-mail-on-sunday-and-the-met-office"
The Met annual report is an accounnting report and does not even discuss climate 
John as I have told you many times that is a false quote from the Global Warming Policy Foundation "the-mail-on-sunday-and-the-met-office"
The Met annual report is an accounting report and does not even discuss climate 
John the UK Met Annual Report is an accounting report that does not even discuss climate..John my "line of argument" is also known as the truth, you are the one who keeps posting lies, misquotes and  misinterpretationsWhile the purists and pragmatists might argue the fine detail of climate policy, the actual policy is being driven by a bunch of procrastinators, the govt and the mining lobby. 
Abbott's direct action is a pathetic joke, as independent analysis by consultants SKM MMA and Monash University's Centre of Policy Studies found, Direct Action requires a further $4 billion more than it has budgeted to meet Australia's 5% target by 2020, in fact without this additional funding  emissions will be 9% per cent higher than 2000 levels. A study by Bloomberg New Energy Finance shows that in the six months to June, only $40 million was invested in large-scale renewable energy, compared to $2.691 billion in 2013. This is the lowest investment level since the first half of 2001.
The carbon tax was an effective means of CO2 mitigation that also brought in an average of $7.7 billion p.a. in revenue, and the Clean Energy Finance Corp.  helps fund clean energy projects and new technology, and still earns the Federal govt $200m p.a. in revenue. 
This govt is so utterly committed to destroying the green energy market they are willing to forgo $Billions in revenue, despite their constant cries of "budget emergency"The rate of warming may be less than the previous period, but it is still warming...The only Frankenstein's monster here is Abbott's Direct Action, it is the most appallingly deceitful policy I have ever seen. A reputable independent analysis by consultants SKM MMA and Monash University's Centre of Policy Studies found that Direct Action requires a further $4 billion more than it has budgeted to meet Australia's 5% target by 2020, in fact without this additional funding  emissions will be 9% per cent higher than 2000 levels. 
Abbott &amp; co also expect us to give $billions of our tax dollars to the big polluters with a note saying "Here is a bucket full of tax dollars, now can you please stop polluting quite so much, or alternatively use the money on a glossy media campaign that makes it look like you are."   
The hidden agenda of Abbott and co  is in full swing and the effects are already being felt, with investment in renewable energy in free fall thanks to Abbott's appallingly short sighted anti-green ideology. A study by Bloomberg New Energy Finance shows that in the six months to June, only $40 million was invested in large-scale renewable energy, compared to $2.691 billion in 2013. This is the lowest investment level since the first half of 2001. 
The carbon tax was an effective means of CO2 mitigation that also brought in an average of $7.7 billion p.a. in revenue, and the Clean Energy Finance Corp.  helps fund clean energy projects and new technology, and still earns the Federal govt $200m p.a. in revenue.  
This govt is so utterly committed to destroying the green energy market that they are willing to forgo $Billions in revenue, and despite their constant cries of "budget emergency"James Hansen actually said..."Any agreement likely to emerge from the negotiations would be so deeply flawed that it would be better for future generations to start again from scratch." 
Hansen believed the politics was flawed, not the science.....
APM a word to the unwise , the appeal to authority fallacy does not relate to expert knowledge. 
Also the IPCC says temps are still increasing at 0.12deg C per decade and their 2007 predictions were only 0.1deg C / decade out.  
FACT: "Carbon gas emissions from Australian power generators have declined for the past four consecutive years, having dropped by 1.2 million mt in the 2011-12 financial year, 7.4 million mt lower in the 2010-11 year, and 5.8 million mt in the 2009-10 year, said the Canberra-based consultancy."
Ref "Australia carbon emissions fell 7% in first year of carbon tax: report"The CRU did NOT say that John and as usual you refuse to reference, here is what they did say: "The period 2001-2010 (0.477 deg C above 1961-90 mean) was 0.217 deg C warmer than the 1991-2000 decade (0.270 deg C above the 1961-90 average). The warmest year of the entire series was 2010, with a temperature of 0.540 deg C above the 1961-90 mean. "
Ref: "Global Temperature Record - Phil Jones"Today's carbon dioxide levels are substantially higher than anything that has occurred for more than 400,000 years."
Ref "Long-term Trends in Carbon Dioxide and Surface Temperature" Center for Climate and Energy Solutions
Hi there 11.55 and thanks for reminding me of the RSS site. I had a look at the page entitled "Upper Air Temperature" and guess what I found?  ..
"Figure 5.  Globally averaged temperature anomaly time series for the Lower Tropospheric Temperature (TLT).  The plot shows the warming ot the troposphere over the last 3 decades which has been attributed to human-caused global warming. "
So.....what were you were saying about faith and religion, and data contradicting AGW?
Here's some observational data....In 2007 the IPCC observed a temp trend of + 0.13C per decade over the previous 50 years, in 2014 the same trend is +0.12C per decade . .
"Figure 5.  Globally averaged temperature anomaly time series for the Lower Tropospheric Temperature (TLT).  The plot shows the warming ot the troposphere over the last 3 decades which has been attributed to human-caused global warming. "
RSS site "upper-air-temperature"
Harry you dare accuse Greg of lying with stats
- It is quite clear from Greg's emissions graph that the steepest decline in emissions was from mid 2012, when the CT was introduced.  
- Hydro production only increased by 6.8% over 5 years , you cherry picked a small time frame when it went from drought to flood .
- No large scale emitters have gone 100% renewable, but they do offer Green energy plans to customers, eg Energy Australia offers 10%, 20% or even 100% from renewable sources.
The steepest part of the curve is between Jun-2012 and Dec 2012 i.e. AFTER the Carbon tax. The cherry picked time-frame was the exact time frame when the drought had broken and dams were at their lowest levels but filling fast.. So if green energy supplied by energy retailers is a scam, why haven;t the media mentioned it?


"Figure 5.  Globally averaged temperature anomaly time series for the Lower Tropospheric Temperature (TLT).  The plot shows the warming ot the troposphere over the last 3 decades which has been attributed to human-caused global warming. "
Ref: RSS site "upper-air-temperature"
"The rate of atmospheric warming over the past 15 years (1998-2012) is +0.05 [-0.05 to +0.15] degrees C per decade. This period begins with a strong El Nino, and is smaller than the rate calculated since 1951 (1951-2012) of +0.12 [+0.08 to +0.14] degrees C per decade." 
Ref:AR5 WG1 Summary for Policy Makers (approved 27 Sep 2013)Thanks Greg but I would go one step further, reform seems to have morphed into "policy that I have been ruthlessly manipulated into agreeing with"
The lies, half truths and blatant manipulation of the science of AGW  by the denial lobby has given Abbott a clear run to remove the carbon tax, an effective means of CO2 mitigation that also brings in  $7.7 billion p.a. in revenue. But isn't there a "budget emergency"? Clive Palmer many have helped to keep some aspects of Labor policy by demanding that the Climate Change Authority, and Clean Energy Finance Corporation remain in place, yet but he seems to have reneged on his promise to force the implementation of an ETS. 
If Abbott &amp; co were actually serious about CO2 mitigation then why would they have been so keen to abolish an instrument like the CEFC that helps to fund clean energy projects and new technology, yet still earns the Federal govt $200m p.a. in revenue?Palmer is nothing more than a charlatan, only three weeks ago he paraded in front of the cameras with his new eco-buddy Al Gore saying he was now convinced that pricing carbon was good policy, and he promised Australia that the PUP would force through a bill to guarantee an ETS in the future. "In voting against the abolition of the Climate Change Authority, Palmer United senators will move an amendment to establish an emissions trading scheme." 
He repeated it again on ABC's Lateline  "Well it's the bill and we'll be amending that bill to introduce a ETS which'll only take effect on another country's operating an ETS into that bill."
So what exactly happened to that bill? Knowing Palmer he probably lit a cigar with it and it's sitting in the Roller's ashtray.
"Three out of five Australians don't want to scrap the carbon tax if doing so damages government revenue, according to polling undertaken exclusively for Fairfax Media."
Ref "Most want to keep carbon tax: poll"  SMH July 14, 2013 Chris Johnson
No John and as I have frequently told you Germany is building MINUS six coal plants ...
"As a reaction to the nuclear phaseout, Germany has thus started building zero coal plants but stepped away from six. At current power prices, all conventional projects are on hold, and coal power may soon be unprofitable in Germany. "
Ref: "Germany builds minus six coal plants after nuclear phaseout:" 29 Apr 2013 by Craig Morris
John it is entirely possible when Germany is decommissioning the equivalent of six more coal plants than they are building..

Mike I did not say that, I said the season was starting two weeks late due to a lack of snow..Harry here are the facts re Molten Salt...
"The salt retains solar energy in the form of heat, ranging in temperature from 500 degrees Fahrenheit to more than 1,000 degrees. That enables salt to double as both an energy transfer and an energy storage mechanism. Unlike water, molten salt remains in a liquid state at these high temperatures, enabling it to be transported to ground level and stored through a relatively inexpensive system of pipes and tanks. On an as-needed basis, the heated salt is used to boil water to operate a steam-driven turbine, a part of the process that is exactly like any conventional fossil fuel power plant." 
Ref: Cleantechnica - "Salt-Based Solar Thermal Power Plant Takes Shape In Nevada"Harry, yes i do understand but evidently you don't, the salt is constantly heated and energy transferred so there is no loss of energy heating it up daily as you imply 
"That enables salt to double as both an energy transfer and an energy storage mechanism"
"Today's carbon dioxide levels are substantially higher than anything that has occurred for more than 400,000 years."
Ref "Long-term Trends in Carbon Dioxide and Surface Temperature" Center for Climate and Energy SolutionsJohn don't talk to me about a dispassionate and unbiassed source , when you constantly misquote  the GWPF as the UK Met  ."These results show that, when accounting for the 'energy return' as a straight Energy Carrier (i.e. electricity as such), the resulting EROIel of PV spans approximately the same range (EROIel = 6 - 12) as the EROIel of conventional oil fired electricity systems (EROIel = 4 - 11), while the EROIel of coal-fired electricity systems come out approximately double of that of PV (EROIel = 12 - 24). However, it should not be forgotten that thermal electricity production, and coal-fired systems in particular, suffer from much higher life-cycle greenhouse gas emissions than PV (Fthenakis and Kim, 2011), which would be energy-intensive to reduce by means of carbon capture and storage (CCS), thereby considerably reducing the final EROIel. 
Ref: "The Energy Return on Energy Investment (EROI) of Photovoltaics: Methodology and Comparisons with Fossil Fuel Life Cycles"
Of course fossil fuels are  required, they just don't need to be burned so wastefully just to produce electricity. O&amp;M for a large scale PV plant or windfarm would be roughly the same as a coal , gas or oil fired plant 
"The rate of atmospheric warming over the past 15 years (1998-2012) is +0.05 [-0.05 to +0.15] degrees C per decade. This period begins with a strong El Nino, and is smaller than the rate calculated since 1951 (1951-2012) of +0.12 [+0.08 to +0.14] degrees C per decade."
Source: IPCC AR5 WG1 Summary for Policy Makers (approved 27 Sep 2013)Rather than making vague assumptions about EROI perhaps you could start reading up on the subject, starting with: "The Energy Return on Energy Investment (EROI) of Photovoltaics: Methodology and Comparisons with Fossil Fuel Life Cycles"If you are referring to operating, maintenance and disposal energy inputs then renewable energy is way ahead. Coal and gas plants require massive amounts of non renewable energy to mine, process and deliver the fuel, and to operate and maintain. Clean coal plants (if they ever actually work) would also be less energy efficient. 
Abbott &amp; co have been telling nothing but lies about climate policy, whether it be Coalition, Labor or even US govt policy. US president Obama's ambitious goal of 17% emissions reduction by 2020 makes a mockery of Abbott's Direct Action goal  of 5% that is doubtful in itself . Reputable independent analysis by consultants SKM MMA and Monash University's Centre of Policy Studies
found that Direct Action requires a further $4 billion more than it has budgeted to meet Australia's 5% target by 2020, in fact without this additional funding  emissions will be 9% per cent higher than 2000 levels. Abbott also misled parliament again recently when he stated "There is no carbon tax in the United States. There is no emissions trading scheme in the United States"  The US states of California, Colorado and Maryland  all have a carbon tax / cap &amp; trade / ETS in some form, with more states coming on board in future.
And where on earth is all this Direct Action? Abbott &amp; co  have been in office for 10 months now and the only "action" we have seen has the shutting down the Climate Commission and failed attempts to remove the Renewable Energy Target and the Clean Energy Finance corporation.  They have done absolutely nothing as far as implementing Direct Action, no "15,000-strong Green Army"and no $3 billion Emissions Reduction Fund  , they really should re-brand it as "Indirect Inaction" 
Michael . liker a good neo-con you are only telling half the story, Labor was in govt Federally but solar industry shut down due to the action of the NSW Coalition state govt...
"Silex Solar chief Michael Goldsworthy , at his plant yesterday, announced the company would shut part of its western Sydney operation with the loss of 30 jobs. THE country's largest home-solar market has been in freefall since the NSW government announced plans to axe its solar bonus scheme in April. The decision has triggered widespread job losses and business closures, an industry survey has found. Government's withdrawal of solar subsidy scheme leaves industry in trouble:"
Amos Aikman: The Australian  August 18, 2011

"Labor's Gonski school funding plan will be dumped in 2017-18, saving about $30 billion from the federal budget. Hospital funding agreements, agreed with the states and territories under former Labor prime minister Kevin Rudd, will also be wound back from 2017, saving a massive $50 billion over eight years."
Ref : "Budget 2014: States accuse Federal Government of forcing them to push for GST hike" Emma Griffiths ABC 15 May 2014"Our current deficit has occurred despite Australia's terms of trade being at the highest sustained level in 150 years. "
Mr Cowan and the CIS are joining in the deception of the Coalition and their other spin directorate, the IPA by using selective quotations to push the usual false narrative of Labor over-spending, when the issue was always revenue. Cowan quotes Treasury sec. Martin Parkinson to argue that terms of trade are still at record levels when they have actually been in decline since 2011. Parkinson mentioned this in that same speech at the Sydney Institute on 2nd April 2014 : 
"The terms of trade peaked in the September quarter of 2011 and have declined since then as the prices for Australia?s key commodity exports eased in line with growing world supply."
If the govt cannot convince the electorate that action is needed it is only because of their continual deception regarding the overall state of the budget and the reasoning for such drastic action.


There was only one amendment and it was left at the clerks office at 8.30am. Abetz then tried to ram it though without first circulating the amendments to the senators.It is a sad day indeed when you can compare a majority HOR with a hung parliament, in terms of chaos and instability.
It's not just the new PUP senators causing mayhem ether, this govt has been its own worst enemy with the hubris of Abbott &amp; Hockey over the budget and now Sen. Abetz tried to barge the Carbon tax repeal bill through without debate. Then yesterday the coalition was caught napping when ALP Sen. Sam Dastyari sneakily tabled the regulation concerning changes to FOFA, the one that the Coalition has been trying to keep under wraps.
Talk about amateur hour...
Gillard was "made" PM by the simple fact that she was deputy leader of the ALP..
Yet more delusional rhetoric from Abbott, it is the actions of his govt driving people to such desperate measures , yet rather than show concern for their well being he chose to demonise them and then shrugged off any personal responsibility.
Abbott &amp; co have won the race to the bottom, hands down...Forrest those on board were not transported to the nearest safe port were they?
No, 41 Sri Lankans were handed over to the Sri Lankan Navy on Sunday...Forrest we always ask the right questions, you and the Abbott apologists club just don't like them. 
The race to the bottom has been run and won and we have a new champion..
The Abbott govt! Bravo! Take a bow, along with the 99  staff in Morrison's DIAC media unit..
First prize is a high court challenge and international condemnation..
Not as lazy or unhelpful as describing a well established metaphor as cliched..Euthanasia is a necessary evil in many cases, but I would have one proviso. They must acknowledge that they comprehend fully that there is no afterlife..The person wanting it of course , and isn't it obvious why.....? 
People may be less inclined to end their life early if they don't believe in the afterlifeYes that was my point, people may be less inclined to end their life early if they don't believe in the afterlifeLabor policy has always been to replace the carbon tax with an ETS.   Labor and the PUP  are opposing the scrapping of the carbon tax in favour of Abbott's farcical "Direct Action" that will actually lead to increased emissionsAh yes who can forget "O week"? All the newbies with their campus maps finding their way around, the only thing missing is the mandatory keg party in the dorms.. 
Or maybe Palmer-the-nut has some sort of meet &amp; greet planned for his minions
Mr  Berg I would rather not have a cross section of the community in the senate.  I remember a time when only the best and brightest would dare to pursue a career in politics, but now any old mining magnate,builder, agri-business owner,  MP  officer,  engineer, retired footballer or sawmill manager can have a go.
The electorate is now more apathetic than ever, so the AEC must ban idiotic  "micro-parties" (ie a party of one ) from joining the senate race..""People raise signs behind him without his knowing."
What a load of rot, Abbott knew exactly where the signs were and what they read, you only have to search google images to see dozens of pics of him standing next to them ..
Ref: ditch+the+witch.jpgGood point Yank, also Scott Morrison's D.I.A.C. reportedly has 99 people in its "media dept" What on earth do they do all day, dream of new ways to tell us absolutely nothing?The concept of anti Abbott / Howard / Gillard / Rudd placards and T-shirts isn't new, but their exposure in the media has certainly evolved from just a newsprint headline photo or TV news video grab , and into the realm of social media.  
The emergence of the twitter-sphere and other social media has dragged the debate even further down into the gutter when it was supposed to help nullify the lies, half truths and FUD that the MSM seems to perpetuate.
The new media obsession with "what's trending" seems have the opposite effect of only attracting ever-more outrageous and offensive commentary.  
Rudd clueless on economy - August 15, 2007
Howard's IR laws 'helping work-life balance' - August 23, 2007
Labor at war over IR laws - October 18, 2007
Howard's wisdom is not debatable - October 23, 2007
Beware Labor-Green axis (front page) - November 20, 2007 
I'd like to see the Murdoch papers show Abbott &amp; co the same level of "support"When was the last time we heard a PM say this about a federal budget "We may not get it through the first time or even the second time, but I think we will get it through." ?
This govt is shaping up to be the most deceptive, divisive and incompetent govt in our nation's history, Abbott surely cannot survive this many bad calls and stuff-ups in just his first 9 months. Even the normally compliant MSM is  reading the mood of the electorate and starting to turn and Abbott will need the 37 spin doctors that now work in the dept of PM &amp; C alone, rivaling Scott Morrison's record of 99 spin-meistersI'm not exactly sure what point you're trying to make (sarcastically), but if any govt has ignored advice from Treasury,IMF and world banks it would be the Howard &amp; Abbott govts.
Submissions for the FOFA  enquiry closed weeks ago...Abbott &amp; co don't get irony, otherwise they wouldn't have spent three years accusing the previous Labor govt of overspending when the issue was always a decline in  revenue, or introduced an austerity budget that cuts billions from welfare, disabled, pensions, ABC &amp; SBS, whilst keeping tax breaks for superannuation and their $22b paid parental leave scheme virtually untouched. ASIC itself has been a running joke in this country for far too long, and deception of Commbank customers by rogue agents may also go unpunished as the Abbott govt seems to think they can simply lump the fraud claims into the current inquiry into the financial services industry.
This is simply unacceptable, considering that submissions for that inquiry have already been closed, so there will be no opportunity to hold the Commbank and others to account for allowing rogue agents in their employ to rip off their own customers. The greatest irony seems to be the fact that while the banking and finance industries have been bleeding their customers dry, the Abbott govt will only ever hold a royal commission if it involves the ALP or unions.Rob ASIC needs to focus on all forms of collusion and corruption, and at least attempt to prosecute all cases with even a slim chance, even if they don't win the alleged collusion or corruption has at the very least been exposed..30 years Evan? Abbott may have changed that standard forever by raiding  the Rudd govt cabinet papers for his witch hunt Royal Commission.
So by "ignore many issues " you actually mean the ABC reported the facts in a calm balanced and concise manner.The Abbott govt is now taking  the term "offshore processing" quite too literally. They now deem it it acceptable policy to process asylum seekers on the high seas by asking four very basic questions in a teleconference, name, country of origin, where they had come from and why they had left. Then they are simply handing them over to a foreign power via the Sri Lankan Navy without any assurance from the Sri Lankan govt that they will be treated humanely.
Morrison has also pulled out another old chestnut, the "national interest test" more like a "coalition interest test" to add to his draconian "50/50 chance of mortal danger test" to determine the issuing of protection visas.
I shudder to think just how much lower this govt is willing to go to demonise and demoralise asylum seekers.When stripped bare the right have no moral standing, they try to hide their selfish dog-eat-dog attitude to life behind a veneer of false respectability, but they are only fooling themselves. They revel in parroting whatever dogma their fave shock jock spouted this morning, but what they fail to understand is that when they do so they surrender their ability to disseminate and rationalise the news for themselves. and o only tell half the story.  
Their political parties like the Liberals hire the best spin doctors to massage the message, using mind-tricks like half truths and false dichotomies to manipulate the argument. The perfect example is the climate science debate, they use the web and to spread their FUD and misinformation and the Dunning-Kruger effect does the rest.
As I often say, people who listen to shock jocks are either too stupid or too lazy to form their own opinions, and that's why there are no left wing shock jocks.Are you serious? Of course the advisers profited, they received massive bonus' and commissions for selling specific products and the Commonwealth bank has also profited from the saleYet more Liberal party / big business window dressing , the lame apology and promise of a "remediation process" by Combank's CEO are designed purely to make it easier for Abbott to and ignore calls for a proper investigation like a  royal commission. We won't see this govt start a royal commission that isn't just an ALP/union witch hunt ,  Asic must either be given some real teeth, or cleaned out entirely and replaced with a new entity.
Even that's 0.05 deg per decade, over the past 50 years it has been 0.12 deg C per decade.. 
Evan try to be consistent, you seemed to think that it mattered that the temp rise was "0.05c over the last 15 years". I was only correcting your error, it is 0.05 degC per decade.Ben if you want to narrow the climate change debate down to Sydney's weather,  here are some relevant BOM records from 2013..
"2013 was the warmest year on record for Sydney, with the hottest day, the warmest winter, and the warmest spring. here were fewer rain days than average, but the most heavy rain days since 1988.
Warmest year on record for maximum and mean temperatures. - Record lack of cool days and nights. - Hottest day on record for Sydney - Above average rainfall, but notable dry spells too - Most rain days of at least 25 mm since 1988"
Ref : BOM "Sydney in 2013: Warmest year on record"No-one would are dispute any of the records from the BOM site and as usual you attempt to smear the data. 1000 instances you say, that would impact only 0.03% of the entire data set.
Newton published many of his works in a peer reviewed journal, it was  called the Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society, est 1665.
A recent review of Ptolemy's book Almagest proved that he plagiarised earlier observations made by Hipparchus and others. He also declared the Earth was the centre of the universe, so maybe he needed to be peer reviewed..
Thanks John for unraveling the lies and myth-information being spread by the denial lobby and the Abbott govt ,  misrepresenting the effects of the carbon tax, both positive and negative. They have exaggerated and falsified negative impacts like inflation,  electricity prices and industry closures, and hidden positive impacts like the real reductions in CO2 emissions, especially from coal-fired power.
Joseph Stiglitz, a former senior economist at the world bank and a Nobel Laureate in economics had this to say recently: "It seems to be a no-brainer, taxing carbon makes more sense," ...... "I believe that over the long run we will have to have a carbon tax, the world will come around to this."
Germany is closing down their nuclear industry and building new cleaner coal plants to replace many outdated dirty coal plants, effectively minus six in total.
Ref: "Germany builds minus six coal plants after nuclear phaseout:"  by Craig Morris 29 Apr 2013mantra / noun (originally in Hinduism and Buddhism) 
- a word or sound repeated to aid concentration in meditation.
- a Vedic hymn.
- a statement or slogan repeated frequently
Does number three ring any bells Forrest? 
The overly simplistic sloganism of the Abbott govt has me perplexed. How can anyone with even a modicum of intelligence support such errant nonsense as "earn or learn". They also neglect to adequately explain the petty and mean changes to Newstart, like keeping people on the $212 pw Youth Allowance until they are 25 rather than 22 as now. They are also expected to find a job while on "Work for the Dole" for 25 hours per week, which I assume does not include travel time. 
Thanks Ben for  a great laugh, I just read Coulter's rant and I must say the right sure are getting desperate in their quest to find a new cross-section of the community to marginalise. Now it's the turn of soccer fans, and her ridiculous "argument" includes the assertions that the world cup is not actually a US TV ratings bonanza, and that soccer is part of some "Chinese-style brainwashing in the public schools to use centimeters and Celsius". I wonder if we can call that attitude, Metric system denial? 
 She also claims that since we have opposable thumbs players should be able pick up the "foot"-ball and run with it. Seriously?  
What was most obviously hidden from her rant was the reality that soccer players and fans  are more likely to have a higher IQ and would therefore logically vote Democrat. 
John it's also not a complex thing to understand those "wealth creators" be nowhere without the people in their employ who design, create, service and market their product or service...
Evan now name just one of those "scientists" who is not in the employ of big oilFYI Formula 1 cars have been running hybrid style Kinetic Energy Recovery Systems (KERS) since 2009, and this year the systems have evolved further to convert kinetic energy under brakes and heat energy from the engine and brakes into electrical energy.  
Evan, ever reliable in showing your ignorance, the technology in today's F1 cars will be in tomorrow's road cars, engine, tyre and fuel technology, fuel injection, turbo-charging, disc brakes &amp; sequential (DSG) gearboxes all evolve from  F1.. 
You also haven't heard about FIA's new Formula E (that's E for electric) Championship series.?.Evan yes they do know and like me they understand the concept of net effect, as I stated the new hybrid technology being constantly developed and showcased in F1 will have a net positive effect on the environment.
You on the other hand just want to point to some imagined hypocrisy
OR -  The Coalition is tearing through so many of Australia's environmental programs and breaking so many pre election promises that they now trail in the latest Newspoll TPP by 45-55."As the Australian public baulks at even a modest carbon price....."
I have to disagree with that assertion, recent polling has shown that after years of bombardment of false propaganda from the right and MSM, public concern over climate action is once more on the increase. In March/April each year the  Lowy Institute commissions a survey, and this year the results were quite surprising..
"When asked about international policy on global warming and carbon emissions, 63% of Australians say the government should be taking a leadership role on reducing carbon emissions. Only 28% say it should wait for an international consensus, and a fraction (7%) say the government should do nothing."
Ref: "Climate change, 2014 Lowy Institute Poll finds 4 June 2014"Experimental models by Uni of NSW's Institute of Environmental Studies bust the myth that only fossil fuels can provide reliable base load power. 
As Prof Mark Diesendorf says: "'Even when the total contribution of the most variable sources, wind and solar PV, is as high as two-thirds of annual electricity generation, our renewable energy system can still provide the same high reliability as the existing fossil fuelled generation system.""it's what made us demand moral virtue of a man paid to run with a football" 
While I don't expect them to act like monks, we are talking about professional athletes. More importantly they are role models for our youth and that is why they need a certain level of moral (and hygiene?) standards, at the very least.
Carney had more warnings than he deserved to get his act together and failed, and virtue had nothing to do with it..
I don't think I'll ever look at a water fountain the same way againNo Stevie "the Australian" have only claimed that Rajendra Pachauri  acknowledged it, but they refuse to publish any quote or provide a transcript of the interview..
John 1. the IPCC are well aware...
"The rate of atmospheric warming over the past 15 years (1998-2012) is +0.05 [-0.05 to +0.15] degrees C per decade. This period begins with a strong El Nino, and is smaller than the rate calculated since 1951 (1951-2012) of +0.12 [+0.08 to +0.14] degrees C per decade." 
[Source: AR5 WG1 Summary for Policy Makers (approved 27 Sep 2013)]."So by the end of the century it will be a rise of 0.5c that would be half the rate"
Only if you throw away scientific method, go only by raw data over only one decade and  include the 1998 anomaly . Over 5 decades the rate is  0.12C per decade, almost identical to he IPCC's prediction of  0.13C per decade.
That would be Walter Starck from the Australian Climate Science Coalition, which is funded by the Australian Environment Foundation, which is funded by the International Climate Science Coalition, which is funded by the Heartland Institute, which is funded by Koch Industries.John your so-called  "pertinent question" mimics every right wing shock, all expecting a precise answer to an imprecise question.
Next you'll be asking, how long is a piece of string ..  
The Greens are their own worst enemy, despite continual good polling they are really only a shadow of their former glory. The rot started back in 2009 when their incredible short-sightedness forced the Rudd govt into an embarrassing back-down on the original CPRS, then in 2010 they strong armed Gillard into breaking her commitment not to implement a carbon tax. As they say the rest is history and the Greens are more responsible for tarnishing the Labor brand than Tony Abbott can ever claim, but what really amazes me is how they could not see this day coming..
I sure did..Thanks Ian slight correction if I may, that's our not "our corporate regulator at work", it's more like our corporate regulator on an extended break.. 
ASIC has been a running joke in this country for far too long, as mentioned they only ever seem to have the courage to pursue small fish like  Jonathan Moylan, while the big fish seem to have absolute impunity.   
The fraudulent deception of Commbank customers by one rogue agent may also go unpunished as the Abbott govt says they can simply lump these new fraud claims into the current  inquiry into the financial  services industry.
This is simply unacceptable, considering that submissions for that inquiry have already been closed, so there will be no opportunity to hold the Commbank and others to account for allowing a rogue agent in their employ to rip off their own customers. 
"The CEFC is earning an average return of 7 per cent, which is above the government?s cost of funds at 3.5 per cent. Its abolition would result in at least $200 million of lost annual revenue to the government."
Ref: "Clean Energy Finance Corporation faces growing business demand, but its future still in doubt" - Anne Hyland BRW 04 April 2014
I have often described Tony Abbott as a political opportunist of the worst kind, and  it seems that now Clive Palmer seeks to emulate him..
This is compounded by a compliant MSM that increasingly acts more like a party spin directorate than an an impartial news service.
I was in a state of shock watching Gore cosy up to Capn Clive, but on further reflection I understand the motivation. Gore has claimed a victory for carbon pricing on the world stage and besides Clive's idiotic photo-bombing during his speech, Gore came out relatively unscathed.  It remains to be seen if Palmer will honour his pledges to save the Clean Energy Finance Corporation, Renewable Energy Target and the Climate Change Authority, and hold the govt to account over electricity price reductions post carbon tax. As for the promise of an ETS it is rather hollow since it starts at zero and seems to have too many exclusion clauses.
Palmer has only ever experienced the up-side of politics so he may not fully comprehend the magnitude of what he has promised, or that we will  expect him to keep his word in full, or else.It's a win win for Gore, on the world stage he has claimed a victory for carbon pricing,.
Apart from Clive's idiotic photo-bombing during Gore's speech, only Australians will truly appreciate how stupid Gore looked teaming up with Captain Clive.FYI Ben the Clean Energy Finance Corporation is a profitable enterprise, is that what makes it an economic nonsense?What's so stupid about the clean energy finance corp? It it profitable and has helped advance major innovations like at Sundrop farms.
Clive Palmer is an arrogant media-junkie and to be trusted as much as Tony Abbott in keeping his commitments, enduring the mind numbing PUP press conference with Al Gore we saw Clive photo-bombing the shot, top right with an idiot grin on his face. We'll see if he actually honours his pledges to save the CEFC, RET and the Climate Change Authority, and hold the govt to account over electricity price reductions post carbon tax. He is not serious about legislating an ETS that would be tough to get through the Coalition's current majority in the HOR. I
Palmer has only ever experienced the up-side of politics so he may not fully comprehend the magnitude of what he has promised, or that we will expect him to keep his word, and in full.
"Even Labor has accepted that to service Labor's debt it costs $1Billion per month. "
Labor has never and would never accept that, because it is a lie 
"Using either gross debt or net debt, Mr Hockey's claim that at the moment Australia is paying a billion dollars every month in interest on the debt that Labor left is exaggerated." ABC Fact Check..It seems you are correct Cherna, I am the greater authority, because I know the difference between gross debt and net debt. 
Labor is only responsible for 75% of the Gross debt, you should look it up...Thorough analysis..IMF Working Paper No. 13/5 "A Modern History of Fiscal Prudence and Profligacy" is hosted on the IMF website, it provides a graph on page 45 , Figure 5. "Periods of Prudence and Profligacy, 1850-2011" In 2003 and from 2005 to 2007 there is a yellow band that is described in the legend as "Influentially profligate. The paper was written by IMF staff, Paolo Mauro Assistant Director and Division Chief, Fiscal Operations, IMF, Rafael Romeu Senior Economist at IMF , Ariel Binder: Research Analyst IMF, Asad Zaman: Research Analyst IMF 
Also if the claim is dishonest why did have the papers used headlines like  
"Australia's most wasteful spending came in Howard era, finds IMF" "IMF says Howard Most Wasteful Spender" "Howard's legacy questioned by IMF" "Howard rejects IMF's 'profligate spender' tag"ACMA has more than once forced The Australian to retract verbals, misquotes and headlines that were found to be false or misleading, if that's you point... 
Thanks Alan for helping to bust the Abbott coalition's absurd false narrative used to attack Labor over economic management. Recently they have stooped even lower than usual using repetitive and infantile alliteration like "debt and deficit disaster" Abbott steadfastly refuses to accept any criticism or responsibility for the utter failure of his amateurish budget, a budget that any reputable economist will say places an unnecessary risk of recession on our economy. We have already seen the first potential signs with drops in business and consumer confidence,  along with housing values that began to taper off during May-June.
The current transition from the investment phase of the mining boom to the production phase should be helping to inform the govt  that permanent structural  reforms are required, not the short sighted "temporary debt levies" for the rich, but permanent cuts to health, education , pensions and welfare spending.



Australia may finally have Clive Palmer sussed, he scored lowest on trust and highest on arrogance, in my view a perfect assessment. He is an arrogant media-junkie and to be trusted as much as Tony Abbott in keeping his commitments. We'll see if he actually honours his pledges to save the CEFC and Climate Change Authority, and hold the govt to account over electricity price reductions post carbon tax.  He is not serious about an ETS as it would never get through the Coalition's current majority in the HOR. I had to endure the mind numbing PUP press conference with Al Gore, and there was Clive photo-bombing the shot, top right with that idiot grin on his face. 
Palmer has only ever experienced the up-side of politics so he may not fully comprehend the magnitude of what he has promised, or that we will  expect him to keep his  word, and in full.
Australia may finally have Clive Palmer sussed, he scored lowest on trust and highest on arrogance, in my view a perfect assessment. He is an arrogant media-junkie and to be trusted as much as Tony Abbott in keeping his commitments. We shall see if he actually honours his pledges to save the CEFC, RET, and the Climate Change Authority, and hold the govt to account over electricity price reductions post carbon tax. He is not serious about an ETS and I he will get the Coalition to vote for it in the HOR. I had to endure the mind numbing PUP press conference with Al Gore, and there was Clive photo-bombing the shot, top right with that idiot grin on his face.
Palmer has only ever experienced the up-side of politics so he may not fully comprehend the magnitude of what he has promised, or that we will expect him to keep his word, and in full.Forrest you seem to suffer from Gina Rinehart mentality. so allow me to clarify
If people work more and socialise less they won't get rich and they certainly won't 
inherit a $ billion empire...
The early settlers didn't have super tax breaks, private health ins. rebates and an extravagant PPL either..Forrest, 99.9% of Greg's article is about inequality and only mentions the govt once in the final sentence, yet your initial reaction is to assume it is entirely critical of the govt. 
Come on Forrest admit it, they've gone too far..
Income inequality is a problem that will only get worse, and Pikkety's theory make good sense when you look at it. The basic premise "If capital growth exceeds economic growth, wealth will tend to concentrate amongst the owners of capital." I prefer to use a more simple phrase, "You need to have money in order to make money"
Of course Abbott and Hockey will always try to downplay income inequality in Australia because otherwise they would have to justify their appalling attitude toward the poor that shows in their budget. The disproportionate cuts to welfare are in stark contrast to their continued support for middle/upper class welfare like the private health care rebate and super fund contribution tax concessions. 
Hockey has even tried to laud the rich as "lifters" and denounce the poor as "leaners" by using outrageous comparisons of net income, whilst ignoring the fact that 37% of Australian govt income comes from indirect taxation, not just income tax.High income earners do NOT pay the majority of taxes, 37% of Australian govt taxation revenue comes from indirect taxation, the type everyone pays...Q: Exactly what measurable impact would it have if Australia reduced it's emissions to zero?
A: 560 million tonnes CO2 
Sinodinos was forced to resign from Abbott's cabinet because of his appearance as a "witness" at ICAC and his memory loss on the stand will ensure he will never return. Shorten will not be seen at the Royal CommissionSo by "mentions at the Royal Commission" I gather that you mean the hearsay evidence of a certain witness who has already been caught contradicted himself in evidence. This RC is a kangaroo court and is rapidly turning into a complete  farce.The problem with conservatives is that they are greedy AND ignorant. Greedy because they demand welfare they don't even need, and ignorant because they fail to understand how others got to where they are in life. 
Case in point, the vile term "Lifters v Leaners"
Au contraire Mr Berg, judging by the "success" of the previous oppn leader, all Shorten has to do is, oppose every policy,  lie about everything, talk down the economy and he's a shoe-in for 2016.
It's really just that simple, ask one term Tony
"The rate of atmospheric warming over the past 15 years (1998-2012) is +0.05 [-0.05 to +0.15] degrees C per decade.  This period begins with a strong El Nino, and is smaller than the rate calculated since 1951 (1951-2012) of +0.12 [+0.08 to +0.14] degrees C per decade. "
Source: AR5 WG1 Summary for Policy Makers (approved 27 Sep 2013)"Even when the total contribution of the most variable sources, wind and solar PV, is as high as two-thirds of annual electricity generation, our renewable energy system can still provide the same high reliability as the existing fossil fuelled generation system." 
Prof Mark Diesendorf - Deputy Director of the Institute of Environmental Studies, University of New South Wales 
google :  Renewing renewables - Ockham?s Razor 
"The rate of atmospheric warming over the past 15 years (1998-2012) is +0.05 [-0.05 to +0.15] degrees C per decade. This period begins with a strong El Nino, and is smaller than the rate calculated since 1951 (1951-2012) of +0.12 [+0.08 to +0.14] degrees C per decade. Ocean warming dominates the increase in energy stored in the climate system, accounting for more than 90% of the energy accumulated between 1971 and 2010 (high confidence). It is virtually certain that the upper ocean (0-700m) warmed from 1971 to 2010."  
IPCC  AR5 WG1 Summary for Policy Makers (approved 27 Sep 2013
I think they explained it rather well"And these things have happened because the temperature of those regions has increased by how much?" 
Forrest thank you for asking a valid question, the (scary) answer is:
The Yamal peninsula in Siberia has warmed by 5 Deg C avg. over the past 2 summers, permafrost at a depth of 20 metres has warmed by about 2 Deg C avg over the past 20 years
Ref: Mysterious Siberian crater attributed to methane -  Nature com 31 July 2014A tax and dividend system seems a great idea in principle, in practice it's just another overly complex carbon price signal. Experience has shown us that once govt starts handing out compensation the denial lobby start playing the same old broken record "That's socialist wealth re-distribution" 
A cap and trade ETS is the way to go, and to think we almost had one. 
Senator Lines was quite right, and sadly the opposition seems to be gagged by the current nationalist fervour and are not in the position to highlight the vast difference in priorities between themselves and the govt. While Labor is focused on the reality of the Coalition's inequitable budget and how it impacts real Australians, the coalition have simply reverted to type and the usual nationalist hype. They use smoke and mirrors distraction techniques to avoid the reality of their inequitable budget and how it impacts real Australians.Like any good neo-con politician Abetz consistently speaks in half truths, he is correct in saying there has been a "wages explosion", it's just not where he says it is.. 
In the past 12 years executive fixed salaries have increased almost 3 times faster than inflation, and nearly 70%  faster than average wages growth. 
Yes indeed what will it take for the board to finally kick Joyce to the kerb ? I read today that Qantas shares have dropped 40% since Joyce took charge, that should be enough in itself really..Great article, and it raises a point that is yet to be adequately discussed in this country, the level of casual racism. Offensive and racist remarks can still appear to be harmless to some, like Eddie Maguire and his "King Kong" remark while the Adam Goodes taunts were still fresh in the mind. Maguire obviously thought it was just some "lively banter" and seemed genuinely shocked at the level of negative reaction to his overt racism, it probably says a lot about the people he mixes with.
The case of the cafe owner shows that racism isn't a uniquely Australian flaw, and that people's ideas of the level of acceptance and what exactly constitutes racism can be quite varied. 
"Whyalla will be wiped off the map by Julia Gillard's carbon tax, Whyalla risks becoming a ghost town, an economic wasteland if this carbon tax goes ahead."
There was no according to.......  etc etc, those were all Abbott's own words. 
A falsehood is still a falsehood , even if it is repeated
"Australia's emissions of carbon dioxide from power generation fell by 12.2 million mt or 7% to 160 million mt of CO2 equivalent in the financial year ended June 30, the first full-year of the Australian government's carbon tax, energy consultancy Pitt &amp; Sherry said Tuesday. "
Ref: "Australia carbon emissions fell 7% in first year of carbon tax: report.
There you are Forrest the impact of the carbon tax, quantified , anyone who demands an exact temp difference is only showing their own ignorance
The carbon tax ensured there were less carbon emissions , regardless of demand. It led to the closure of Stanwell (Qld) Port Augusta (SA) and Munmorah(NSW) coal fired power stations and the reduction of capacity of 50% at  Tarong (Qld) and 25% at Yallourn (Vic).
I didn't see any solar plants or wind farms shut down.. 
Forrest the correct phrase is "correlation does not imply causation" and it relates to correlation between two variables, the carbon tax was a constant 
So repeat after me, Cause and Effect, Ipso Facto, if it walks like a duck....Thanks Jonathon, this current govt seems to have taken dysfunction to a whole new level, in opposition all Abbott could do was oppose ALP policy for the sake of it, and now in govt he has proved that the only thing he actually stands for is the continued destruction of Labor. He seems unwilling or unable to break his pattern of destructive behaviour , the Royal Commissions into Unions and Rudd's Pink Batt scheme are 100% politically motivated, and have so far revealed precious little new evidence.
Abbott has no signature reforms of his own (at least none he is willing to share) and his idea of "fixing the budget" has so far involved removing Labor's 2% cap on spending growth so he could introduce over $15b worth of new discretionary spending, doubling the deficit, increasing the debt limit by $230b and then removing it altogether.  Even now he continues to imply that rejection of his budget is "obstructionist" and refuses to abandon a budget philosophy that positively reeks of trickle-down theory, aka Reaganomics.
Dysfunction, thy name is Tony Abbott
Yes whatever happened to Abbott's threat of a double dissolution? The Budget appropriation bills have  passed but there are many other bills related to the Budget, along with the CEFC Abolition Bill, have all failed to pass the senate, yet still nothing. 
Forrest you see Abbott and Hockey's idea of "fixing the budget" has so far  involved removing Labor's 2% cap on spending growth, doubling the deficit, increasing the debt limit by $200b and then removing it altogether. Does that seem reasonable to you?
"talk their way out of it"? Sorry guys it's not going to happen, that would require a level of humility and common sense that Abbott and Hockey, in fact no-one in this govt seem to possess.
Even now they refuse to abandon their budget philosophy that positively reeks of trickle down Reaganomics."Kevin Rudd, who was prime minister when the crisis struck, put in place one of the best designed Keynesian stimulus packages of any country. Rudd's stimulus worked, Australia had the shortest and shallowest of recessions of the advanced industrial countries. "
From: "The Crisis Down Under" by Joseph Stiglitz, former head economist at the world bank and a Nobel Laureate in economics.If Stiglitz didn't impress you it would be due to your own partisan  ignorance, not any shortcomings on his part.
He was one of the first economists to predict the GFC 
True to form Tator you skipped over the most crucial comment..
"Directors considered the recent increase in the official interest rate to be appropriate in light of emerging inflation pressures. "
By "emerging inflation pressures" they actually meant to say "Howard's profligacy" that led to an overheating economy and 10 interest rate hikes in a row from 2006-2007The rates rises in 2007-08 had nothing to do with Rudd , the cash rate went from 5.2% in 2005 to the max of 7.2% in Jan 08, just when Rudd took office.. 
The post GFC rate rises from Oct 2009 from 3% to 4.9% were pre euro crisis 2 while the RBA saw conditions improving"Well, Howard spent $4 billion on his own "cash splash" in his final budget, and promised another $4 billion in his election campaign, in the middle of a boom. In other words, there was no economic rationale whatsoever. On the contrary, Howard's handouts were helping to overheat the economy. These payouts were economic vandalism and political bribes designed to buy votes."
Ref: "Rudd's challenge: how to resist the big swoon " Peter Hartcher - SMH March 21, 2009The Asian crisis may have been a crisis in Asia but it registered barely a blip here, govt revenue growth slipped a few  points but revenue did not actually drop as it did in 1991-92 , and 2008-09 &amp; 2010-11. These were the only 3 Federal Budgets in the past 45 years where the govt had to deal with declining revenues, so thanks Paul and WayneYes it certainly did, but that's what comes from taking a risk that kept us in growth, saved us from recession and kept 200,000+ people in gainfully employment.
If only Abbott and co could be so clever 
After a couple of uncharacteristic articles that dared to be critical of the Abbott govt in recent weeks, Berg has sadly reverted to type. This is yet more of the same humdrum IPA context-twisting selective quotation, designed to suit their historical revisionism agenda.
Swan was a better treasurer than Costello and Hockey put together, so I suggest that you learn to deal with it.
There's a saying in motorsport, the first driver you have to beat is your teammate and the fact that Ricciardo is regularly faster than teammate and 4 times world champion Sebastian Vettel in both qualifying and the race shows that he has what it takes to be a future multiple World Champion. We may need to wait until Mercedes domination ends but it will be well worth it  , he has the ability to manage his tyres better than anyone and when he set his best lap of the race on the last lap he showed he had outfoxed Mercedes and still had plenty in reserve ..
Bravo Daniel on a brilliant drive!
Our involvement in the Gulf War V2 showed us that any commitment we would make would be insignificant compared to the elevated threat of a terrorist attack.Zaphod if spending really is such an issue why did the Coalition remove Labor's spending cap of 2% of GDP as soon as they took office?"Silly voters - we thought we elected them to represent us and do what is good for us."
Yes indeed Sandra and it seems that only Labor is truly representing us, the post budget Newspoll showed 48% of respondents believe the budget would be bad for the economy and only 39% said it would be good for the economy. 
Morgan ALP 55.5% L-NP 44.5% TPP ,  Galaxy 55% L-NP 45% TPP , Morgan ALP 52% L-NP 48% TPP .
And don't dare insult our intelligence by saying that TPP is not "markedly preferred "Abbott and Hockey were given the job of designing a budget and they have failed dismally in both concept and delivery.
They still refuse to take responsibility for their failure and have even tried to label opposition to it as "whinging" and "obstructionist" . A post budget Newspoll showed 48% of respondents believe the budget would be bad for the economy and only 39% said it would be good for the economy. 
So it seems voter's opinions and democracy itself are seen by this govt as "obstructionist"."For better or for worse, our company (The News Corporation Ltd.) is a reflection of my thinking, my character, my values.? Rupert Murdoch 
"The Guardian approached the ABC, and both organisations shared information and worked together to jointly report the story. There was close co-operation on the process and on the timing of the publication and broadcast, but each organisation took full responsibility and had full editorial control over the material they each published and broadcast. The ABC published and broadcast its stories within a few days of receiving the material." 
A statement from Alan Sunderland, the ABC?s head of policy in November"not portraying them as Nazi's".......Are you freakin' serious? " There are plenty of  bumbling characters from sitcoms that aren't Nazis , like McHale's Navy, Get Smart to name just twoUnder normal circumstances News Corp shareholders and the board could revolt against Murdoch but since parent company News Corp became a Delaware Incorporated company, the Murdochs have used anti-takeover mechanisms like poison pills, a staggered board and dual class stock to maintain full control. As long as Murdoch and his minions are so untouchable and so willing to act as a propaganda tool for lobby groups, corporations and conservative political parties, News Corp will continue to thrive, despite those massive paper losses.Airpower Australia strongly disagrees: "The designs of all three JSF variants are presenting with critical single points of failure while even the most basic elements of aircraft design (e.g. weight, volume, aerodynamics, structures, thermal management, electrical power, etc.) will almost certainly end up in what Engineers call 'Coffin Corner'. "There is no moral case for making poorer Australian do most of the heavy lifting, that's why this govt can't sell this budget,.You should pay more attention, I said poorer Australians, and FYI I have traveled extensively  throughout Western Europe and Asia. I have seen the slums of Mumbai and Calcutta , which helped inform my political views .So when did using actual facts and figures become bizarre and pointless.? They do seem to be kryptonite for the right,,,David I think you are missing the true meaning of "Team Australia", it is just more of the same meaningless nationalistic rhetoric from this govt, like operation sovereign borders, bring them home, etc 
Thanks Jonathan for that great list of stats, but for me the moist compelling recent stat was the post budget Newspoll for showed 48% of respondents believe the budget will be bad for the economy,  while only 39% (the coalitions primary vote)  said it would be good for the economy. Despite opposition being the majority position the govt continues to try to crash the budget through the senate, citing any opposition to it as "whinging" and "obstructionist"   
So it seems the majority of voters in Australia are obstructionist now.... 

This is what he actually said: "From where I sat, I did not think, really, that the budget was that draconian, frankly, in a macro-economic sense. I am not talking about this measure or that measure; I am talking about the pace of intended consolidation over a run of years. That is actually not that tough, frankly."
Ref  : Hansard - "House of Representatives Standing committee on economics - Reserve Bank of Australia annual report 2013."Palmer is a shameless, populist media junkie, and being constantly in the media cycle has made him drunk on perceived power, deluded enough to believe that he is a main player in the game rather than a temporary bit player. His tirade on Q&amp;A shows the level of his hubris , but he only has a short time left before his novelty act wears thin (if it hasn't already). His senate minions are no better, Dio Wang has been defending the indefensible and Jackie Lambie's appalling comments on China would have made even Pauline Hanson blush.
Up until now Palmer has only ever experienced the up-side of politics but if he continues to insult our intelligence the only way for him to go is down.  
Palmer certainly won't be the member for Fairfax after the next election, but sadly his cabal of senators can continue to wreak havoc on the process for another three years
Seems Abbott &amp; Hockey are trying to spearhead a petrol-pump-led-recovery.  
They honestly believe that the poor are "leaners" because don't pay income tax and don't drive around enough. and that they can solve this mythical problem by making the newly unemployed do 100 hours of unpaid labour whilst applying for 40 jobs a month. 
The roads sure will be busy...
Harry referring to Abbott and his govt as Tories is a more accurate representation of their ideology , they are about as "liberal" as Sarah Palin

Oh and FYI that article I referenced elsewhere today (re the CEFC) was not by "a green journo" it was by Anne Hyland, associate business editor of BRW (Business Review weekly) 
Harry your world must be wall-to-wall activism then , this is the BRW not Green Left Weekly, is Lara Tingle an "activist" too? The CEFC only began operation one year ago, so naturally the returns are currently only "expected". The CEFC is also funding world leading innovation, like the 20 ha expansion of Sundrop Farms in Port Augusta, using solar-thermal technology to desalinate seawater to provide irrigation, heating and cooling for  greenhouses which will produce 15,000 tonnes of tomatoes p.a., employing 200 workers.Zing not a fan of democracy in action?  Senate cross-benchers and Labor senators oppose this budget, in line with the vast majority of public opinion ."Australia has struck it rich, and lucky, as it has used its natural resources to benefit from the China spending boom. But the careful stewardship of its treasurer, Wayne Swan, has played a key role in making it the best-performing economy among the world?s richer, developed nations. Not that he is likely to get much credit at home."
Ref: Finance minister of the year 2011: Swan confounds his domestic sceptics by Eric Ellis - Euromoney Sept 2011The current total for heading in the wrong direction is 41% , in far left hand column
If the Coalition  has a "reputation" as the better economic managers it is pure invention. The right leaning MSM rarely mention the reckless spending that characterised the late Howard era, preferring to attack Rudd / Swan's vital stimulus spending whilst glossing over any long term benefits . It is heartening to see media scrutiny of Abbott and Hockey's budget continue , I was concerned that recent distractions might push this horror budget into the background of the political / media cycle. Hockey's grudging negotiations with the cross-bench senators, appalling attitudes toward the poor and that sad excuse for an apology make him the-gift-that-keeps-on-giving for the opposition, 
So according to you they reported nothing, in copious details.?  Here is that list of nothing as confirmed by IMF and OECD 
- Avoided recession , saved 200,000+ jobs, AAA credit rating, Debt  2nd lowest in OECD. unemployment: 8th lowest in the OECD, inflation: 11th lowest in the OECD. GDP per capita: 6th highest in the OECD. Growth : 3rd highest in the OECD.Harry I'm not the one confusing the $42 billion stimulus package with the entire debt. I'm also not the one denying that only four Federal Budgets in the past 45 years ever had to deal with declining revenues, the 1991-92 &amp; 1992-93, and Swan's 2008-09 &amp; 2010-11 budgets.
I also made no claim about the 7% CEFC returns,I merely posted a quote that confirmed the projections. 
I might that add  no reputable commentator has ever disputed that figure.
Seems the poor aren't driving enough either...."Since the nuclear phaseout of March 2011, power exports in Germany have boomed. Germany remained a net power exporter in 2011 . 2012 was a record year. So was 2013"
"German imports of nuclear power ? the myth revisited" 11 Mar 2014   by Craig Morris"The CEFC is earning an average return of 7 per cent, which is above the government's cost of funds at 3.5 per cent. Its abolition would result in at least $200 million of lost annual revenue to the government.."
Ref: "Clean Energy Finance Corporation faces growing business demand, but its future still in doubt" - Anne Hyland BRW 04 April 2014

Welcome to Reality..."The reason hydroelectric and wind power do so well on this measure is mainly due to the relatively small amounts of energy needed to build dams and turbines - at least compared to building a nuclear power plant. Coal is relatively easy to extract in energy terms and has an EROI comparable to wind power, according to this study. "
"Energy return on investment - which fuels win? " Mat Hope and Ros Donald - Carbon Brief 20 Mar 2013Hydro only ever emits CO2 or any pollutants during construction, and I admit they did not phrase it very well, they should have added "Small amount of energy needed to build dams compared to the long term energy return"Not Green Left Weekly, but how about Prof Mark Diesendorf, Deputy Director of the Institute of Environmental Studies, University of New South Wales?
"At the University of New South Wales, a research group comprising PhD candidate Ben Elliston, Associate Professor Iain MacGill and myself, have been running hourly computer simulations of the National Electricity Market with electricity demand each hour balanced with 100 per cent renewable energy."
cont...
"Even when the total contribution of the most variable sources, wind and solar PV, is as high as two-thirds of annual electricity generation, our renewable energy system can still provide the same high reliability as the existing fossil fuelled generation system.""They wear out long before the precious fossil fuel energy used in this task is returned. EROEI (Energy Returned On Energy Invested). "
What a load, renewable energy generation doesn't wear out before the energy investment is returned.
On the other hand fossil fuel generation can never return the massive amounts of energy invested to extract, ship and then store the fuels.Yes you DO have to prove that they can't, and I don't believe that I mentioned economics, but since you have we really should discuss the massive subsidies that govts give fossil fuel suppliers and generators , and the fact that they do not factor in the huge externality costs of fuel extraction, shipping and storage.FYI - A study published in Scientific American (pay-walled) determined the EROI for hydro was 40 , wind 20, coal 18,  natural gas 7, solar 6 and Nuclear 5.
"The reason hydroelectric and wind power do so well on this measure is mainly due to the relatively small amounts of energy needed to build dams and turbines - at least compared to building a nuclear power plant. Coal is relatively easy to extract in energy terms and has an EROI comparable to wind power, according to this study. "
"Energy return on investment - which fuels win? " Mat Hope and Ros Donald - Carbon Brief 20 Mar 2013Windpower is 100% clean energy while the combustion of coal has an environmental impact, or an  externality.. Bi-products include ssulfur dioxide, carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides , particulate matter: (soot or fly ash), mercury, lead, cadmium, other toxic heavy metals, and  arsenic.
Coal is therefore more expensive and your point is moot.
Charles the only weapons grade stupidity comes from people who continue to believe the lies and distortions of the coal &amp; gas lobby, the great  base-load myth is a classic example...
From: "Renewable energy is ready to supply all of Australia?s electricity" UNSW 22 July 2014" 
"Using conservative projections to 2030 for the costs of renewable energy by the federal government?s Bureau of Resources and Energy Economics (BREE), we found an optimal mix of renewable electricity sources. 
The mix looks like this: Wind 46%; Concentrated solar thermal (electricity generated by the heat of the sun) with thermal storage 22%; Photovoltaic solar 20% (electricity generated directly from sunlight); Biofuelled gas turbines 6%; and Existing hydro 6%. 
So two-thirds of annual energy can be supplied by wind and solar photovoltaic"Wind energy provided an annual average of 27% of South Australia's electricity, and 43% of South Australia's electricity needs in July.  
"Wind now supplies an annual average of 27% of South Australia?s electricity generation. As a result, one of the coal stations is now shut down for half the year and the other for the whole year. "
Ref:  "Renewable energy is ready to supply all of Australia?s electricity " UNSW 22 July 2014"The reason hydroelectric and wind power do so well on this measure is mainly due to the relatively small amounts of energy needed to build dams and turbines - at least compared to building a nuclear power plant. Coal is relatively easy to extract in energy terms and has an EROI comparable to wind power, according to this study. "
"Energy return on investment - which fuels win? " Mat Hope and Ros Donald - Carbon Brief 20 Mar 2013Abbott &amp; his denial cronies intend to destroy the renewable energy industry using their usual lies and distortions of fact. Abbott tried to remove the CEFC even though it is a highly profitable  ($200m pa) enterprise and even told this whopper  on July 2, "The RET is very significantly driving up power prices" This conflicts with this own Warburton review that found the RET did not add ?significantly to household and commercial power bills, they commissioned economic consultants, ACIL Allen, to undertake modelling on the future effects of the target. 
"The preliminary report found that, between 2015 and 2020, the target would increase the average household electricity bill by $54 a year ? a tad over $1 a week. This five-year average, however, conceals the estimation that the cost of the scheme will fall as each year passes.
So by the year 2020 itself, the increase will have reduced to just $7 a year. By the end of another 10 years, in 2030, the scheme is estimated to be actually reducing average household electricity bills by $91 a year, or $1.75 a week."
Ref:"How the renewable energy target affects the cost of living" Ross Gittins SMH August 6, 2014You seem to be quoting figures from the competing and thoroughly debunked Deloitte study that was commissioned by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Business Council and the Minerals Council.
"The other important consideration with regard to household bills is the Renewable Energy Target?s effect on the wholesale electricity market (also known as the merit order effect). Put simply, the target supports the introduction of additional power into the market, and like any other market this extra supply should depress prices.CIL Allen predicts that this effect will be much stronger than the Deloitte analysis does."
ref: How does the Renewable Energy Target affect your power bills? Dylan McConnell, University of Melbourne - Tasmanian Times.04.08.14 
The  premise of the  merit order effect is that large scale renewable energy schemes have the overall effect of lowering electricity prices, so if power companies don't pass on the savings take it up with them 
Tasmania's Resources Minister Paul Harriss had this to say  "The Federal Government is well aware of our unequivocal support for the retention RET and we will continue to make that known to the Federal Government. The RET supports Tasmanian jobs and economic growth and that is why we remain committed to it."
Thanks to the merit order effect those renewable schemes that "Hydro Tas can continue to rip out" help to lower the wholesale price of electricity. As I said if power companies are not passing on the savings to consumers then take it up with them
ABS figures for electricity price rises for capital cities for the 5 years preceding the carbon price: Melbourne +84%, Sydney +79%, Brisbane +67%, Adelaide +62%, Perth +57%In yet more disturbing news,  uncertainty over the RET has led to Silex Systems scrapping a 100-MW "Dense Array" concentrated photovoltaic (CPV) project in Mildura. 
Can this govt possibly be any more reckless?So by "current author" you mean Paula Matthewson, former media advisor to John Howard, so if a conservative commentator like Mathewson claims Abbott 'whimped' then that is exactly what he did.
Shorten claimed he has nothing to say to Putin, while Abbott's empty and meaningless shirtfront rhetoric was actually LESS than nothing.. 
SVJ "Must irk the left that Bolt, Jones, Hadley, et al are successful and don't need the menagerie of group think to support them."
Thanks so much for making my day , I haven't had such a good laugh in ages
"I soon got bored, went to the local Commonwealth Employment Service office and on the pin board they had a job as a political staffer. I don't even know if the party was nominated. Anyway, I applied for it and it was the Federal Member for the Northern Territory, John Reeves, who's a lovely bloke. It was supposed to be a temporary thing because one of his staff got sick, but it worked out so well that I stayed for the election." 
 Bolt admitting he was a small time staffer for a small time MP , he was never in the "leftist ranks".After just 14 months he has already done far more for the nation than the ALP achieved"
Yes a $52 billion black hole is quite an 'achievement' ...Bolt was never an "advisor" and his own words show his 'commitment' to Labor
"I soon got bored, went to the local Commonwealth Employment Service office and on the pin board they had a job as a political staffer. I don't even know if the party was nominated. Anyway, I applied for it and it was the Federal Member for the Northern Territory, John Reeves, who's a lovely bloke. It was supposed to be a temporary thing because one of his staff got sick, but it worked out so well that I stayed for the election."
The usual lies from you John California's economy  was a basket case under Schwarzeneger's Republicans, under the Democrats the economy grew 3.4% to $2.203 trillion in 2013 to become the eighth-largest economy worldwide, with debt at a very manageable 18.03% of GDP 
"I soon got bored, went to the local Commonwealth Employment Service office and on the pin board they had a job as a political staffer. I don't even know if the party was nominated. Anyway, I applied for it and it was the Federal Member for the Northern Territory, John Reeves, who's a lovely bloke. It was supposed to be a temporary thing because one of his staff got sick, but it worked out so well that I stayed for the election."
Andrew Bolt showing his 'commitment' to LaborOnce and for all Blot did not work for PM Hawke, he worked in the electoral office of a NT MP John Reeves, for one election"Jerry do you really expect me to believe that lame excuse. "
That is exactly what happened to an ABC News Radio Web Poll last week, JoNova had the following on her cover page, "Help warn the ABC about the IPCC?s scientific ability. Vote here." with a link to that ABC poll.If you want further evidence of Abbott &amp; Co's pathetic and desperate  political posturing you only have to study Abbott's speeches on the international stage. Firstly there was  the Davos economic forum were his "not just another talkfest" gaffe , and attack on the previous govt were directed towards domestic issues and a local audience. Abbott continued this posturing with his opening address at G20 , without doubt the worst, most self-serving speech by an Australian PM in living memory. His speech was supposed to be directed to the world's leaders but just like Davos Abbott's skirting around the vital issue of climate change , gloating over the repeal of the carbon tax, and whining about the senate refusing to pass his austerity budget were an embarrassment and insult to the intelligence of the G20 leaders and the Australian public.
Then, after Abbott was 'shirt-fronted' by Pres. Obama during his stirring speech at Uni of Qld, Coalition  scriptwriters were obviously forced into a hasty rewrite of Abbott's final address, which became a hotchpotch of empty rhetoric, platitudes and false promises, far too little and far too late..
John you use the typical denialist trick of comparing surface area not volume of ice..
Here are the facts..
"Passive microwave satellite data reveal that, since 1979, winter Arctic ice extent has decreased about 3 to 4 percent per decade (Meier et al. 2006)."
Ref: SOTC: Sea Ice | National Snow and Ice Data Center
I also regret the statement of Australian Prime Minister that belittled this tapping matter on Indonesia, without any remorse. SBY - 1:12 PM - 19 Nov 2013
Indonesia also demands Australia for an official response, one that can be understood by the public, on the tapping on Indonesia. SBY - 1:10 PM - 19 Nov 2013I'd prefer to call it like it is, Abbott once again embarrassed himself and the nation, while Bishop stepped in to cleaned up his mess
Own goal? Barrie do us a favour and leave out the sporting metaphors, it's maddening enough hearing them from 'Team Abbott' all day every day, without having to endure media commentary trying to follow suit.
Barrie is quite right in one aspect, it seems Abbott has yet to learn the pitfalls of playing to a crowd using such exaggerated rhetoric, and not following through. It tends to go viral and define the argument just as Rudd learned from his the "greatest moral challenge of our generation", even  Gillard's much more subtle dig at  "men in blue ties" , was an  example where the underlying message was drowned out by the rhetoric..Mike your comment is so stunningly uninformed that it is the perfect illustration of "keyboard science", I'll bet you got your "information" from a denial website like Climate Depot or Watts-the-weatherman. 
The current CO2 concentration of approx 400ppm is the highest it has been in over 800,000 years, the  2000ppm you cite was during the Jurassic-Cretaceous periods when there were no glaciers or polar ice caps, in fact there was little if any snow or ice anywhere on earth, so  sea levels were approx 100 metres higher than they are today
.The risks that no one wants to talk about are externality risks, the negative effects that the fossil fuel industry has on the world around it. They hide behind the fact that these costs are difficult to quantify, but we can see the environmental impacts like climate change and polluted oceans and waterways. 
There are more hidden externality costs like the fugitive CO2 emissions from gas wells and the production &amp; distribution of fossil fuels. In the year to March 2014, fugitive emissions accounted for 8% of Australia?s total national CO2 inventory, these are the hidden costs of Australia being "open for business"Our trade partners are not developing nations, the top five are  China, Japan. USA Korea and Singapore. Cheap energy may help industrialisation but renewable energy becomes cheaper as take-up increases, in fact the merit order effect dictates that energy becomes cheaper overall when you introduce other forms of generation. Like or not there is a global push to cut emissions even in developing nations,  and please don't try that nonsense "energy poverty" argument. People in the poorest nations would remain in poverty even if energy costs drop to almost zero, cheap energy can only help  the poor if the infrastructure is in place, and the cheaper the energy the less encouragement there is to create new infrastructure.
I prefer to call it logic actually.. What incentive is there to extend poles and wires into poorer areas when the ROI is lower? Look at Pakistan for a classic example, their power stations are actually owned by senior politician and leased to local authorities ..
The US has already three states running carbon tax California , Maryland and Colorado. China has already set up seven carbon markets to trial a national market for carbon permit trading by 2016
Bulldust! California's economy grew to  $2.203 trillion in 2013 , to become the eighth-largest economy worldwide.
A very manageable 18.03% of GDP with 3.4% growthYes California WAS a basket case thanks to mishandling by Arnie's Republicans, and it's called renewables investment, not expenditure..That is only phase one, phase 2 starts in 2015 when transportation, natural gas and other fuels will be added to cover around 85%, and the 90% of free permits was the initial offer and no longer valid.Paul Keating said on lateline last night that this deal has been in the works for six months or more, or is Obama psychic as well??There was no scientific validity to their claims at all. And what makes matters worse, other scientists have stated that Christy seemed to do everything in his power to prevent other scientists from figuring out how they got such a strange result."  Michael MannNo Zaphod it appears we have one scientist, (Christy) who refuses to submit his findings and methodology for scientific  peer reviewAbbott's address to the UN General Assembly certainly was cringe-worthy, his "strong enough to be useful" reminded me of the perfect description of what the Liberal denial lobby found in Abbott, "a useful idiot" 
Abbott has no interest in science, even admitting he has never read an IPCC report, but he has read Ian Plimer's book. We had the perfect opportunity to meet China and the US as world leaders  but in 12 months Abbott has managed to destroy that and make us look backward. The US and China are now moving forward with clearly stated emission reduction targets while our govt refuses to commit to further reductions and our RET is even at risk of being reduced by 40%.
The reality is the US already has three states pricing carbon, California ( a larger economy than Australia), Maryland and Colorado. China has already set up seven carbon markets to trial a national market for carbon permit trading that will be operational by 2016Another futile endeavour is to dismiss climate change and introduce a distraction topic..
I was simply tying to remind Paul that the subject matter is the G20, economics and climate change, not population control, and that he should be topical
Different Dave I appreciate your input , our per capita input is massive and we were #1 in 2011 until the carbon tax helped push us down to number 11. We should not just consider our contribution to atmospheric CO2 however, most of our dirty coal power stations are close to the ocean and as their CO2 emissions settle in the oceans it lowers pH to more acidic levels
Ref: "CO2 emissions up 3% in 2011, Australia worst on per-capita basis" Reuters 20 Jul 2012It was  Robyn Williams who said 100 metres , when asked how much sea levels would rise if the ice caps melted."The rate of atmospheric warming over the past 15 years (1998-2012) is +0.05 [-0.05 to +0.15] degrees C per decade. This period begins with a strong El Nino, and is smaller than the rate calculated since 1951 (1951-2012) of +0.12 [+0.08 to +0.14] degrees C per decade. Ocean warming dominates the increase in energy stored in the climate system, accounting for more than 90% of the energy accumulated between 1971 and 2010 (high confidence). It is virtually certain that the upper ocean (0-700m) warmed from 1971 to 2010."
[Source: AR5 WG1 Summary for Policy Makers (approved 27 Sep 2013)]JohnM the IPCC said no such thing, ref above...Oh dear, one more time.., Greenhouses do not have polar ice caps or permafrost in danger of melting, do they?Greg got the data from  NASA - GISS , the scientific data from NASA &amp; UK Met and the IPCC report  all say there has been warming
Not sure what your trying to say, but if you are trying to correlate increased CO2 with increased food production you are a way off
As the saying goes "correlation does not imply causation"The usual group of deniers are trying to argue that climate change is not an economic issue when it is fact THE economic issue.
The G20 should be having major discussions regarding the growth potential of the renewable industry, the economics of emissions trading and the potential impact costs of climate change. Even UK conservatives like PM David Cameron seem to get that, yet Abbott and his Canadian mate Stephen Harper are still lurking in the Luddite tent with the other denialists chanting "nothing to see here"
As for the matter of future economic growth the rubbery rationale and figures provided by Abbott and
Joe the comedian are a total joke. Hockey is back from the shadows and playing the usual word games by firstly refusing to deny there is a $51b hole in the budget, and then had a lame attempt at denying it to the faithful on 2GB. 
"The figure is wrong, I am confident it's not going to be around that mark." I honestly don't share your confidence Joe.The science of the Greenhouse effect has been around since the late 19th century, so a lot longer than Al Gore. And are you seriously suggesting that NASA, the Royal Society and every other reputable science body on the planet is under the influence of some kind of Al Gore cult?  hilarious...

It's nothing personal Forrest, I just hate cheats and liars...It just dawned on me why Abbott used the term "shirtfront", everything about him and his govt is a front.
A front for a dishonest, incompetent and unstable govt, and that is why he won't confront Putin at APEC or G20 if ever. Today we witnessed even more front from Industry Minister Macfarlane spending over $45,000 wining and dining  the "G20 Energy Sustainability Working Group"(aka Gas &amp; Energy companies) at the exclusive Fairmont Pierre Marques  in Acapulco, naturally it is not listed as an official G20 event.
Joe the comedian is also back on tour playing his usual word games, firstly refusing to deny there is a $51b hole in the budget, then had a lame attempt at denying it to the faithful on 2GB.  
"The figure is wrong, I am confident it's not going to be around that mark." 
I'm not as confident Joe.There is no doubting the romance of the black hole, the interstellar dance of gravity, space and time,  but reality is far more sobering. I've lost count of the times I've bored my friends with a black hole reality check, as Tim Dean so ably demonstrated, you wouldn't want to go anywhere near one.
The mystery of what occurs at the event horizon will no doubt continue to puzzle mankind for centuries to come if not for eternity, I can't imagine how we could record such an event.
No Zaphod it's what the right do, as Freeman pointed out with the TWU / Toll example and you conveniently ignored, this royal commission is wholly focused on the conduct of union officials, not company executives.
Company executives may not be prosecuted if they can prove they did not benefit financially, and Julia Gilliard  would only be recommended for charges if she had she done something illegal, don't repeat the usual rightist "but for a lack of evidence........" meme..
Yes indeed, it's quite rare to have a case of union corruption without corresponding business corruption, as the saying goes , "it takes two to tango" 
While it is good to see that some corrupt union officials, most especially the darling of the HR Nichols right Kathy Jackson may finally get their  comeuppances, this Royal commission has otherwise been nothing more than a show trial designed to put the boot into the unions and by association the ALP..I am on the side of low paid health workers who need a strong union.
I said most especially Kathy Jackson because she is a hypocrite who  portrayed herself as a "whistleblower" and victim, when evidence suggests she was far worse offender than even Craig Thomson. 
She also portrayed the union movement as corrupt with the help of the right wing, especially Peter Reith and the HR Nichols society where she once gave a speech.I believe I was rightly suspicious of the manner of Thomson's arrest by a total of nine NSW police officers with the national media in attendance. The claim of an "error" by Victoria Police was also a bit too convenient for my liking..That is totally fasle, after the fall of the Soviet Union Germany absorbed the bulk of eastern bloc economic refugees, according to the world bank in 2012 Germany housed 589,737 refugees,Thanks Peter, as an born aussie of German descent  I have traveled to Germany frequently , as a child I remember the journey with my parents between the East German border and Berlin was called "transit", and we were not permitted to leave the autobahn and had to arrive at the West Berlin checkpoint within a certain time. We also entered East Berlin through the old Checkpijnt Charlie , where the guards confiscated one of my prized motoring magazines and I did not get it back. As I recall the transition from West to East was very stark, everything was so drab it was like stepping into the past or watching a B&amp;W movie. 
I was also privileged enough to return to Berlin as an adult  in November 1989 to watch the wall come down and joined in the festivities with some relatives , it was certainly one of the most emotional times  that still brings back tears of joy and fond memories. 
 
Actually Germany fared worst in that regard, the  treaty of Versaille after WW1 gave the Alsace region to France and Eastern Prussia to Poland 
Well he must not have listened because he was there for the entirety of Abbott's speech, he may have been told to move to one side as some pics show the sign to the right of Abbott 
Left-splaining? Right-splaining more like, Bishops appalling attitude seems to imply a belief that she earned her position while others didn't.  Bizzare's "Woman of the year"? 
The job of Foreign minister is a complete  doddle, smile and wave, smile and wave,. even an idiot Adelaide aristocrat like Lexi Downer managed to  do it without ever once starting a war. 
Also quite aside from the question "Is she a good feminist role model?"  we should be asking the more general question, "Is she a good role model regardless of gender?" I say no..
Her appalling behaviour as a lawyer towards the asbestos litigants against her client James Hardie, continually delaying proceedings to thin the herd as they died of cancer, and her year long abuse of parliamentary privilege smearing and slandering Julia Gillard would suggest that she is not even close.
That would be the Newspoll 31 October - 2 November 2014 that shows the Coalition 46%  vs  ALP 54% TPP, with Abbott's satisfaction rating as 37% Satisfied and 52% dissatisfied. 
Voters don't like Abbott"A number of South Vietnamese soldiers fleeing the fighting apparently made their way onto the Australian aircraft during this airlift. This led the Prime Minister, Gough Whitlam, to direct that only humanitarian supplies be carried on subsequent flights"
Ref: "Wartime issue 53 feature article: After the fall" Australian War MemorialThe usual smear, the  loans were designed to nationalise our mining interests , and when Whitlam left office there was a budget surplus despite the Oil crisis. Fraser and Howard were the fiscal incompetents, who lost control of wages and caused all three indicators ,inflation , unemployment and interest rates to got over 10% for the only time ever in 1983, and they  left Hawke and Keating a $9b hidden deficit
Gough Whitlam was one of the last of a dying breed, the true conviction politician. Sadly the current crop of politicians and MSM churnalists don't have a fraction of Gough's tenacity or class and are all too happy to insult our intelligence on a daily basis.
John Howard is the worst offender and commenting on his death couldn't resist his usual hypocritical revisionism by accusing Whitlam of being too reliant on growth and fiscal drag..(says the man who spent $314b of the mining boom on pork barrels, upper/middle class tax cuts and welfare) 
The usual mob of rightist churnalists couldn't wait to stick the boot in to Gough either, even on the day of his passing we saw tirade ofter tirade from the likes of Blot, Ackerman, Devine &amp; Henderson.
Blot already had his "spewlogy" up on his blog by 8.13am that morning, his rant started off with "Whitlam explored the gulf between seeming and doing, and tumbled into the chasm." 
Classy.....
Mr Thelawyer, you have now sunk to a new low, Gough was actually that an honest and compassionate lawyer, which is why he would never have even considered conservative politics.
"A conservative government survives essentially by dampening expectations and subduing hopes. Conservatism is basically pessimistic, reformism is basically optimistic." 
From - The Whitlam Government 1972-1975 by Gough Whitlam, published 1985As usual you are uninformed Peter, Whitlam beat Nixon to China when he first visited China in 1971 as part of a Labor Party delegation.Oh you poor deluded soul,  you actually think that  after everything he has done that Abbott is somehow going to reveal some hidden depth? 
Abbott is about  as shallow as it gets...Clinton did no such thing, while he was forced to sign the Financial Modernization Act of 1999 that repealed Glass Steagal, it was sponsored by Gramm, Leach and Bliley all republicans .. 
Also it was GW Bush who relaxed the net capital rule , and that allowed banks to leverage up to 30 times their asset value, the rest is historyThe Financial Modernization Act of 1999 aka the Gramm, Leach and Bliley bill was not introduced by Clinton, it was introduced and sponsored by Gramm, Leach and Bliley all republicans .. 
Also it was GW Bush who relaxed the net capital rule , and that allowed banks to leverage up to 30 times their asset value.
THAT caused the GFCYou have to love the irony of someone saying "no offense", just prior to being offensive. 
And it's lucky for  ADFA students that they don't have to pay HELP fees that now rise with CPI, that would be a double whammy...
Lambie is our Sarah Palin, an utterly clueless crack-pot with the kind of idiotic ideas that resonate with vocal minority conservatives. Palmer probably saw that as a positive initially, but like McCain before him, Palmer must be secretly wishing the earth would open up and swallow her, and pronto..
The usual fact-free union-bashing ,  Australians ranked fourth for long hours worked among 34 OECD nations, 20% of Australians work more than 50 hours a week, and 33% do not use their annual leave entitlements.
Yet another Abbott govt minister shown to be clueless about matters relating to their portfolio. Trust me I'm a lawyer Brandis joins an illustrious group of Abbott govt failures, Abbott with his shirt-front diplomacy, Hockey's budget fail, Morrison's lies causing a riot, Johnston signing us up to dud F35 fighters, Hunt offering, as a "gesture", to spend millions on a lame-duck ETS review and Dutton lying about the EU's offer of assistance for any health worker contracting Ebola.
In a bizarre twist it seems the only minister who hasn't completely stuffed up is good ol' Bananaby, wonders never cease
The longer this govt is in power the more it reminds me of the Howard govt ministers who were constantly being caught either lying, or being incompetent.If Abbott had any "fiscal responsibility" he would not have removed Labors 2% cap on expenditure growth and spent an extra  $15b in the first three months of office and then try to blame LaborNo you are the one re-writing history, if Whitlam didn't "last one term" it was because the hostile liberal controlled senate forced him into one DD election after another. 
His reforms were his alone and the Liberals refused to vote for  a single one..As Mr Pearson so aptly demonstrated if anyone kept the aborigines "isolated from modernity" it was right wing isolationists like Bjelke-Petersen, who denied John Koowarta the right to purchase the Archer Bend Pastoral Lease from its white owner. 
A great speech by Noel Pearson that captured the true essence of Gough Whitlam and his political reforms, and why his opponents hated and feared him so. 
They hated Whitlam because he represented what they feared most....change.
Barsnax I agree, it seems to be a natural progression / regression with this govt.,  they started by drafting the military into 'Team Abbott". Now it's the AFP's turn to sign up and I shudder to think how far they might go in this absurd fear campaign.   
This is not the first time the AFP has been politicised by this govt, as early as last December AFP officers raided the offices of Bernard Collaery , the lawyer representing the nation of East Timor at the Hague regarding the Howard Govt / ASIO bugging of the East Timor's govt cabinet room to listen in on secret discussions regarding Eat Timor's oil and gas interests .
 Around the same time the AFP also cancelled the passport of an alleged whistle-blower two days before he was due to appear as a witness for East Timor in the Hague.
This govt is not above such dirty tricks and are more than happy to drag anyone down into the gutter with them."..... The warrants were issued by me, at the request of ASIO, on the grounds that the documents and electronic data in question contained intelligence relating to security matters. be given to the legal team representing Australia in the overseas court case." 
 "Response by Mr Bernard Collaery" Statement by AG Brandis issued 4 December 2013Yes I agree, this came down from Abbott's office
Yes of course they would have praised them, the issue is Abbott's grab for power not political ideology.
2010 was the hottest on record, so the reality is there has been no net increase in global average temperature for near on 4 years. ..
"The rate of atmospheric warming over the past 15 years (1998-2012) is +0.05 [-0.05 to +0.15] degrees C per decade. This period begins with a strong El Nino, and is smaller than the rate calculated since 1951 (1951-2012) of +0.12 [+0.08 to +0.14] degrees C per decade. Ocean warming dominates the increase in energy stored in the climate system, accounting for more than 90% of the energy accumulated between 1971 and 2010 (high confidence). It is virtually certain that the upper ocean (0-700m) warmed from 1971 to 2010."
[Source: AR5 WG1 Summary for Policy Makers (approved 27 Sep 2013)]Seriously John when Tony Abbott asked for a "mature debate" even he didn't mean one from the 19th Century... 
Coal is historyThat poll result is and obvious distortion when compared to others so it cannot be taken seriously.
The denial lobby don't even deny they are gaming the system, JoNova still has the following on her cover page, "Help warn the ABC about the IPCC?s scientific ability. Vote here." with a (still active) link to that ABC poll."The Petition Project website offers a breakdown of the areas of expertise of those who have signed the petition.In the realm of climate science it breaks it breaks down as such: Atmospheric Science (113) Climatology (39) Meteorology (341) Astronomy (59) Astrophysics (26) So only .1% of the individuals on the list of 30,000 signatures have a scientific background in Climatology."
Ref: "The 30,000 Global Warming Petition Is Easily-Debunked Propaganda"  The Huffington Post
"The NAS Council would like to make it clear that this petition has nothing to do with the National Academy of Sciences and that the manuscript was not published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences or in any other peer-reviewed journal.
The petition does not reflect the conclusions of expert reports of the Academy."
Statement by the council of the National Academy of Sciences April 20, 1998
Peter &amp; Jackie great work again showing the true level of understanding in the community of the potential threats from AGW. 
 The reality that the denial lobby are desperate to hide is that on current trends 2014 will surpass all other record years,  2010 (1st) , 2005 (2nd) &amp; 1998 (3rd). This scares them because they won't be able to "hide the incline" any more, so they are now slanting the debate using more of their usual "astro-turfers", denial bloggers targeting this space and others, also web polls like yesterday's ABC News Radio Web Poll.
"Is the InterGovernmental Panel on Climate Change right that, on current fossil use 'projectories', we are heading for a global warming of four or five degrees by century's end?" No 91%  Yes 9% 
This poll result and others like it are so obviously distorted that they cannot be taken seriously, yet the denial lobby don't even deny they are gaming the system. JoNova still has the following on her cover page, "Help warn the ABC about the IPCC?s scientific ability. Vote here." with a (still active) link to that ABC poll.The Coalition's house of cards is starting to topple under the sheer weight of corruption, lies, broken promises and sheer incompetence. 
The Victorian election will just be the start and once the Napthine govt is gone the people of NSW and Qld will start to look at their Coalition govts in a different light, if they don't already. 
I am amazed that the Coalition is still leading NSW polls, despite the fact that thanks to ICAC 10 Coalition MPs have had to quit the govt and move to the cross-benches. Qld will certainly be a tougher battle but  whatever the result there, 'Cando' will lose his seat and be a one term Premier 
Hey Alpo, it's the "others" that worry me quite frankly. Swinging voters really should have made up their minds by now, especially after ICAC revealed the extent of election bribery within the NSW govt that also extends into the Federal Coalition via Sinodenos and Abbott &amp; Hockey's  Millenium Forum "Member packages" 
The May Budget and the cuts to health and education funding to the states is a prime example of Abbott's constant diffusion of any and all  responsibility for the consequence of his actions. It will forced them to cop the blame for any potential changes to GST, and has led to tensions with the coalition state govts facing elections in the next 12 months, particularly the Victoria govt that is already in for a hiding next month. 
Bully-boy Abbott wouldn't know a "mature debate" if it walked up to him and shook him by the hand. His debating M.O. is a mixture of childish slander , lies , bullying and intimidation, and stem from his Uni SRC days stalking the Sydney Uni campus with his band of thugs.

It was John Maynard Keynes who said "When the facts change, I change my mind. What do you do?"
Julia Gillard actually said "When the conversation gets stale, boring and repetitive, I change the subject. What do you do?"

Lovely weather we're having....John the usual misquotes, outright lies and half truths... 
Sigmar Gabriel, the German Energy Minister is not on record saying any such thing, nor has Finance Minister Wolfgang Schauble
Germany is moving away from Nuclear energy, not renewable energy, with iight nuclear pants already shut down and all 17 nuclear power stations will be closed by 2022.
The State of Brandenburg has not approved the opening of five new coal mines, they have approved the expansion of five existing mines.
John yes as I said they did say what you claimed they said. Once again you misquote text from the Australian , this time as coming from the Guardian  UK 
Germany may be winding back renewable subsidies but that is only because they were overly generous to begin with. Gabriel's plan will reduce the average subsidy for wind, solar and other renewable power sources to an average of Euro $0.12 per kilowatt-hour in 2015 from the current Euro $0.17.
As for coal plants ...
"By 2035 installed coal power generating capacity will have fallen from around 42 GW to around 15 GW
- 12 coal plants more than 40 years old have been decommissioned, and the new 2,200 megawatt plant is to directly replace 16 older 150 megawatts blocks by the end of this year, so 2,200 megawatts of new, more flexible, somewhat cleaner capacity (the new plant has an efficiency of 43 percent, whereas 35 percent would be considered ambitious for most old coal plants) is directly replacing 2,400 old megawatts." Ref: No More Coal Plants in Germany May 15, 2013Q: Are elections decided by primary vote?
 You know the answer
Forrest there are a myriad of places where the climate has changed, but I'll give you two examples 
1: The Arctic:
Arctic warming is causing changes to sea ice, snow cover, and the extent of permafrost in the Arctic. In the first half of 2010, air temperatures in the Arctic were 4? Celsius (7? Fahrenheit) warmer than the 1968 to 1996 reference period, according to NOAA. 
Ref - Climate Change in the Arctic - National  Snow and Ice Data Centre 
2: The Antarctic: 
Since records began, 50 years ago, mean annual temperatures on the Antarctic Peninsula have risen rapidly [Turner, et al., 2005; Vaughan, et al., 2001; Vaughan, et al., 2003]. A total increase in mean annual air temperatures, of around 2.8 ?C makes this the most rapidly warming region in the Southern Hemisphere ? comparable to rapidly warming regions of the Arctic.
Ref: British Antarctic Survey - Antarctic Peninsula: rapid warming 

Flannery did not say there would be permanent drought, and here is what Robyn Williams said 
Andrew Bolt: I ask you, Robyn, 100 metres in the next century...do you really think that?
Robyn Williams: It is possible, yes. The increase of melting that they?ve noticed in Greenland and the amount that we?ve seen from the western part of Antarctica, if those increases of three times the expected rate continue, it will be huge.
Forrest as my references state, they are  "mean annual temperatures" ...Forrest you seem to have reverted to discussing local weather, not climate... 
Peter there is nothing wrong with a properly regulated free market , and we all know what happens when moron conservatives think it's a great idea to relax those regulations and allow open slather. When Bush relaxed the net capital rule he allowed the major banks to leverage themselves into oblivion and hey presto ... GFC
Abbott's Direct Action is actually a socialist style policy of picking winners, while pricing carbon is a regulated market mechanism.And the junk science goes on and on , you have misquoted from Stephens, et al, and Professor Fritz Vahrenholt is an industrial chemist who once worked for Shell and now works for RWE Innogy, Germany's second-largest energy company/ He  also recently joined Lord Lawson's Global Warming Policy Foundation, a denial lobby "think-tank" as a "policy adviser"
In the interview you cite Der Spiegel asked him "Why don't you publish your prognoses in a professional journal?" Vahrenholt responded "Because I don't engage in my own climate research. Besides, I don't have a supercomputer in my basement. " 

Indeed he doesn't...
How exactly have I "libelled [sic] Prof Varenholt"?
Is he not  an industrial chemist who once worked for Shell and now works for RWE Innogy, Germany's second-largest energy company?
Has he not recently joined Lord Lawson's Global Warming Policy Foundation?
Did he not say in the interview you cite "Because I don't engage in my own climate research. Besides, I don't have a supercomputer in my basement. " ?
As for the Stephens et I made an assumption based on the fact that the wording does not match the abstract and a real scientist would never use wording  like " totally invalidating predictions of future climate catastrophe"

John, as Vahrenholt and and you both admit he does not conduct research. Also the GWPF is a denial think-tank and not a legitimate scientific body, so anyone who works for them must be viewed with suspicion 
As for Stephens et at, I realised immediately that such language could not have come from a legitimate peer reviewed scientific paper, you have tried and failed to hide behind a paywall, and as Dr Who and Clarke have proven below, you have once posted a false quote...Direct Action is a farce, as shown by a report by consultants SKM MMA and Monash University the govt will need to spend $4 billion more than  budgeted to actually meet the 5% reduction target. 
As Ian pointed put the absurdity doesn't end there, the great irony iis that Direct Action is a socialist style policy policy while pricing carbon is the type of market mechanism that free market loving Liberals prefer 
The so called "deal" with Palmer is another pathetic side show  ,as 
Environment Minister Hunt even admitted that the ETS review is just a "gesture" , so it seems the Coalition is all too willing to waste $millions on an inquiry into an ETS that they have no intention of implementing.
"We must now all summon the courage to do nothing."
Billy Bob we all know how the right are experts at doing nothing."Carbon dioxide and nitric oxide are natural thermostats," explains James Russell of Hampton University, SABER?s principal investigator.  ?When the upper atmosphere (or ?thermosphere?) heats up, these molecules try as hard as they can to shed that heat back into space.? 
Ref: NASA Solar Storm Dumps Gigawatts into Earth's Upper AtmosphereJohn ice core sample are neither  unreliable nor faked, stop your slander  of dedicated hardworking scientistsJohn, CO2 levels are now higher than any time in the past 650,000 years 
Ref":NASA - Global Climate Change: Evidence and CausesDeBrere it's a phenomenon called Polar AmplificationSo a "mature debate" seems out of the question...Both have warmed alarmingly but you are correct that over the past 60 years the Arctic has warmed more at 4degC  (NOAA) while the Antarctic Peninsula has risen 2.8degC [Turner, et al., 2005,Vaughan, et al., 2003] The Arctic has much more open ocean, so there is more surface albedo feedback..(the surface absorption of solar radiation)

We currently leave the selection of our political leaders to a popular vote that can be tainted by lies , false promises and bribery (Ref Abbott), but we usually learn from our mistakes . By leaving it to chance we could end up with a Clive Palmer as PM, or worse...
....shivers....Brand came to fame for being a loud mouthed git, sadly it seems to have kept him there.Keating used colourful language to deride his opponents but it was never as mean  and spiteful as Abbott's behaviour in opposition and in govt. It was Abbott who started the viscous campaign of character assassination against Julia Gillard ..Whatever happened between Rudd and Gillard is irrelevant, we were discussing the open political discourse not the behind the scenes infighting.
Debunker you are fooling yourself. the last three Labor budgets had government payments averaging 24.6% of GDP. the May budget had government payments of 25.3% of GDP in 2014-15 , it will remain at 24.7% or more through forward estimates.Geodynamics' project partner Origin Energy is confident enough in the technology, and committed $70 million to drilling the Habanero 4 well.
My apologies, old news from 2012, the trial was a success and the plant shut down. all it  needs to succeed  is political willYou've spent the last three years saying the same thing about Julia Gillard, wait and see..
Waiting................After years being the opposition bully-boy Abbott is in real trouble thanks to his big spending agenda.
The May budget saw payments of 25.3% of GDP, with forward estimates of budgets at 24.7% or higher, compared to the last three Labor budgets that averaged just 24.6%.
Now he wants everyone to forget his 3 year campaign of fear and smear and just play nice...
Oh and has anyone seen eleventy Joe lately?  Seems to be MIAaddendum: - May budget saw payments of 25.3% of GDP for 2014-15.Brian yes goes to show just how deceitful and incompetent this govt is...Environment Minister Hunt had this to say yesterday "If the Senate was not going to accept that proposal, and if it's an important gesture as part of the process, then we are achieving the outcome here of the emissions reduction fund, of strengthening the Carbon Farming Initiative, of reducing emissions and doing it without a carbon tax"
Reading between the lines it's clear that this is just another Palmer stunt, and the Coalition is willing to waste $millions on a "gesture" inquiry into an ETS that they have no intention of implementing.
Wrong as ever Forrest it was Robyn Williams who  said sea levels would rise by 100m metres, when asked by how much sea levels would rise if the ice caps melted.Tony M I don't know how many times you have to be told but there is NO Temp hiatus ,the hottest year on record worldwide was 2010.. As for the "latest study shows a CO2 sensitivity of just 0.43C" aka "Advanced Two-Layer Climate Model for the Assessment of Global Warming by CO2" is by Hermann Harde a retired Spectral Physicist with no climate science experience or qualifications AT ALL. Harde's "paper" is not peer reviewed and is "published" in the junk science journal Open Journal of Atmospheric and Climate Change.  It also uses figures and references from the thoroughly debunked papers, of Lindzen et al 2001, Spencer and Braswell 2011, Salby 2012, Ludecke 2011

Since  you refuse to argue the validity of Harde's "paper" I can only assume you have no real grasp of the subject matter, but I can assure you his claims of CO2 sensitivity of 0.43C are a nonsense. Also every reputable science body on the planet acknowledges AGW, and the FACT that 2010 was the hottest year on record.
If the IPCC uses the word hiatus they are referring to the temperature TREND not the temperature 
You do know there is a difference? 
Since  you refuse to argue the validity of Harde's "paper" I can only assume you have no real grasp of the subject matter, but I can assure you his claims of CO2 sensitivity of 0.43C are a nonsense.
Also every reputable science body on the planet acknowledges AGW, and the FACT that 2010 was the hottest year on record.

Swan Dive it's called peer review, a process that denialists always shy away from..
"Climate Change: Evidence &amp; Causes" - Royal Society and US National Academy of Sciences - 27 February 2014 
"So what gives these mere mortals the power (or effrontery) to assert that their opinion as to what is the primary cause amounts to a scientifically valid conclusion?"
You really should be asking  that question (as I do) of Blot, Hadley, JoNova and Watts-the -weatherman
You would have to be about as scientifically literate as a lower primate  to rely on their "opinion" over the Royal Society and US National Academy of Sciences..
Nothing helps a govt delay or destroy unwanted policy than commissioning yet another unnecessary inquiry/report /review. There may be some optimistic souls out there who agree with the Green's Christine Milne belief  that it could be "5th time lucky!", but I've been around long enough to know better. 
This coalition govt will never, ever introduce a bone fide carbon pricing scheme, it will either be killed by the death of a thousand cuts or it will be a total sham and a pale imitation of Labor's original (and viable) ETS concept.
Forrest you are quire correct , and as you admitted yesterday, the coalition's Direct Action policy is a joke...So then tell us why did the govt wave the white flag so readily?

Forrest your constant condescension  toward the left and refusal to answer perfectly valid questions regarding the actions of this govt show that you are in fact an advocate
Forrest you are quite correct it was Clive's idea, but as you fully admitted yesterday, the coalition's Direct Action policy is a joke...So why did the govt wave the white flag so readily?

No Murray it seems you need to learn some basic stuff about Tax in Australia: Every single example you gave relates to income tax while  37% of total tax revenue comes from indirect taxation that everyone pays, like GST and fuel excises for example
Then it must follow that the right is "regressive"...Larger point of order, companies in the mining, construction or IT industries were hiring hundreds more workers than they had applied for due to a loophole that was closed by Labor in 2013, but has been quietly reopened by the Abbott govt on February 14 this year. 
In one example, an employer was granted approval for 100 visas over three years yet in 18 months had brought in 800 workers on 457 visas.
And that is one reason why Labor removed the loophole, so why did  Abbott re-instate it? 
Inaccurate you say Forrest? Are you saying Murdoch had no idea about the years of institutionalised phone hacking and corruption of UK Police Force by his company?
Murdoch's apparent  concern for the plight of today's youth isn't a case of him suffering  from a sudden pang of conscience or even having a "Malcom Fraser moment" It seems to have finally dawned on someone in the depths of News Corp's PR dept that Murdoch might just have an "image problem".
This is the man who was dragged kicking and screaming to appear before the Levison inquiry into the institutionalised phone hacking and corruption of the UK Police Force by his company.
Even then all he had to say was.. "This is the most humble day of my life"..
Diddums....John comparing  bills for consecutive periods with differing electricity usage is dishonest, . 
If you want to make an honest comparison either compare it with the same period last year and add CPI or compare on a cost per KW/h basis.
John comparing  bills for consecutive periods with differing electricity usage is dishonest, . 
If you want to make an honest comparison either compare it with the same period last year and add CPI or compare on a cost per KW/h basis.
As I said a  cost per KW/h basis, which would be stated on your bill and you conveniently omitted, besides a vague "my consumption went down by a bit under 10%"Forrest are you seriously referring to the Union of Concerned Scientists as "zealots"?Well Forrest it is hard to compete with the $billions funding the denial lobby and other anti-science lobbies worldwide. Sorry if the truth is so alarming for you.
"Climate Change: Evidence &amp; Causes" 27 February 2014 " Royal Society and the US National Academy of Sciences,In the first quarter of 2014, renewable energy sources supplied a record 27% of the Germany's electricity demand, with a record peak of 74% on 11th May
An accurate fact, period.... Ref: "Renewables Meet Record 27 Percent of German Electricity Demand" By Stefan Nicola - Bloomberg May 9, 2014John still digging I see.  That is from the Federal Association of Energy and Water Industry (BDEW),The debate surrounding electricity pricing saw conservatives drive one of the most mendacious campaigns of outright lies, half truths and false assumptions that I have ever seen. The Coalition state govt's weighed into the debate by cashing in on their gold plating of electricity infrastructure, all the while aiding Abbott &amp; co's campaign of deceit over the impact of the carbon tax on electricity prices. 
Now they are at it again with Abbott claiming he has kept his promise of getting tough on retailers who do not pass on the savings in full.  "We'll have the ACCC there as a policeman. The ACCC is currently monitoring some 570 businesses to ensure that their prices go down commensurately with the abolition of the carbon tax."
The carbon tax is gone and price reductions have not even come close, yet Abbott has done nothing. The carbon tax increased electricity prices by an average of 9% nationwide yet retailers have only passed on a bit more than 5% in price reductions..  
Oh dear, the term "Gold Plating" refers to the unnecessary upgrade  of electricity poles and wires (to meet inflated peak demand figures) by state govts in order to recoup massive dividends
It has nothing to do with the anti-renewable "base load" myth and has also been used (in proper context) by such socialist luminaries as Piers Ackermann , Alan Jones and the Murdoch press.
Ref "NSW Premier Barry O'Farrell's rip-off a $1 billion broken power promise" Sunday Telegraph August 12, 2012The commonwealth may give all GST revenues to the states, but an increase in GST leads to increased funds being redistributed, which takes the burden off commonwealth funding for education and health.
Forrest the RBA did not need the money, it had just recorded its biggest profit in four years, $4.3 billion in the year to June 2013. If you compare dividends taken in today?s dollar terms, the Howard  government took $3 billion per annum (and during the mining boom), while Labor only took $1.5 billion.
Thanks Stephen it's good to see some fact based reporting of Abbott and Hockey's continual figure fiddling and fiscal incompetance. The commonwealth revenue projections for 2017-18 do indeed look encouraging, but remember Labor previously fell into the trap of being too reliant on their accuracy and paid a heavy price. 
There are precious few revenue options open to the govt other than real and permanent tax hikes for the rich (or dare I suggest a commonwealth mining tax?)  The cuts in health and education funding in the May Budget has left  the states clamouring for some other source of revenue to fill the gaps, and it will give Abbott and Hockey the perfect rationale (in their minds at least) to break yet another election promise.  It's only a matter of time.Yes we see evidence of this "inclusive concept" in those  T Shirts proclaiming "Australia , ff you don't love it, leave...I never said they were sanctioned, but they were certainly inspired by  Abbott's "Team Australia"..
Forrest I'd like you to answer a simple question, and without the usual linguistic gymnastics.
Is the term "Team Australia" inclusive or divisive ?
Way off the mark  Swandive, Abudulla Elmir is not a Buddhist (they preach non violence), you may mean  jihadist.. Neither the Islamic community or his parents had anything to do with his radicalisation, which came from social media and slick ISIS recruitment videos 
His family weren't even aware of it until he ran away from home, one family member has since labelled him a stupid idiot .,The psychology behind these security laws is no more than wedge politics, which is in the Liberal's DNA, as evidenced by Howard's use of attribution error to demonise asylum seekers during the Tampa crisis and beyond. By ordering the  SAS to storm a merchant ship full of unarmed civilians he immediately labelled them as potential terrorists and then capitalised on this with electioneering rhetoric like "we will decide who......etc" .
Abbott has learned well from the master and carried this well worn "tradition" through opposition  by demonising the carbon tax and mining tax. When Abbott formed govt they started to run out of demons, that is until the actions of ISIS and their local supporters played right into their hands. Now we see Abbott regaining some lost ground by exaggerating the threat on home soil and evoking idiotic nationalist fervour with his "Team Australia" rhetoric.
But as Bill Shorten said, it's more like "Team Idiot"Not to mention Russian expansionism and oil &amp; gas interestsAn interesting dilemma has evolved from these laws, the family of teenage  ISIS  recruit Abdullah Elmir intended to go to Syria to find him and bring him home, but were discouraged by these laws. On re-entry to Australia they would have to explain where they been and also prove that their intentions were not to support him. How on earth could they to that? 
As usual this govt has lurched into a reactionary position without thinking it through properly, and they dare to accuse the last govt of being dysfunctionalAnd what if they didn't find him, or he refused to come home?
It's not nearly as simple as you pretend.. Where  would they get consular assistance in northern Iraq or Syria? It's a war-zone"The point I'm making to you Chris, is there's no reversal of the onus of proof. The offence is committed by visiting the declared area and then as is the case routinely in the criminal law, if a person wants to raise a defence, they have to put forward material to the court to discharge the evidential owners.
That is not regarded as reversing the onus of the proof.  "
Brandis on AM Monday, September 22, 2014
"You will see that when you research it Rudd and Swan had MORE revenue "
2007-08 - $303,729m , 2008-09  - $298,933m , 2009-10 - $292,767m
I'd say that's less revenue..."The Abbott government has tripled the amount of money spent on the large orange lifeboats used to tow back asylum seekers breaching Australian waters to Indonesia to $7.5 million as part of its tough border control policy. The figure, to be revealed at an estimates hearing on Friday, is $5 million more than the initial $2.5 million allocated to purchase lifeboats in January. It is believed each lifeboat costs about $200,000, which means the lifeboat fleet has increased from 12 boats to about 37 boats, each of which are only used once."
Ref: "Cost of Abbott government's orange lifeboats to tow back asylum seeker trebles to $7.5 million"
Sarah Whyte SMH March 20, 2014  
Thanks Ian for debunking the perpetual economic revisionism of the right, none has been more egregious than John Howard, who recently claimed that Gough's spending program relied too heavily on constant growth. 
This from a man who in the 3 years leading up to the GFC wasted well over $300b on middle class welfare , tax cuts and pork barreling in marginal seats..It is a waste when it leads to an overheating economy that forced the RBA to increase interest rates 10 times in a row from 2006-2008 and also erodes the tax base so effectively that govt revenue dropped significantly and actually declined during 2009-2010. 
Indeed I do,  I also understand that this was a case where  fiscal policy led to monetary policyI didn't blame the household sector entirely for the declining revenues and I agree the GFC was the cause of the real declines in 2009-2010. 
The Howard era tax cuts, (perpetuated by the Rudd govt) were certainly a major factor in RBA having to "mop up liquidity" as you say and led to the revenue issues that still dog the govt today.
1: We actually needed those "unneeded funds" to fund the stimulus and compensate for lost revenue
2: Excerpts from Rudd's Campaign launch speech ? Brisbane  Nov 14, 2007
"Monday's feeding frenzy of expenditure would actually make inflationary pressures worse. Mr Howard spent $10 billion on Monday trying to buy his way out of political trouble.
"...cont...
"Today, I am saying loud and clear that this sort of reckless spending must stop. 

Put simply, it did mattered
" You have painted John Stone as a staunch conservative who actually under mined Whitlam."
 Stone left Treasury in 1984 and became an adviser to Joh Bjelke-Petersen, in 1987 he was elected to the federal  Senate for the National Party. John Howard appointed Stone as the opposition's finance spokesman. 
That's about as staunch as you can get...More revisionism, the 1974 Double Dissolution election was triggered by the coalition-controlled senate refusing to pass Whitlams's health and education bills, amongst others...Please try to follow the argument, I was correcting John's assertion that universal healthcare and exemption from tertiary fees were bipartisan. Whitlam took his "big spending ideas" to one DD election in 1974 and won, and as for the 1975 loss I imagine voters gave up hope and envisioned  being dragged to the ballot box every year.. 
Not dishonesty John, merely observation ..You do know the meaning of bipartisan ? 
John, so you still think you can dig your way out of a hole? Conservatives have never , ever favoured universal healthcare or tertiary fee exemption, that is why this govt is sabotaging Medicare  via the "GP co-payment" and increasing uni fees and tHECS interest rates..Realist the Arctic ice pack has lost 50% of its volume, aka multi-year ice..
Typical rightist maths skills, the hottest year on record was 2010 , so 2014 minus 2010 equals........?..
Flexibility you say like the 64% of new workplace agreements that did not retain leave loading , 63% did not retain penalty rates, 52% did not retain shift loadings, 44% did not retain substitute public holidays, 41% did not retain gazetted public holidays, and 27% lost public holiday pay.
Fear is a well used and highly prized commodity, it helps to sell newspapers, TV news and boosts poll numbers for an incumbent govt.More  lies John, IPCC models have not been falsified..I suggest you read "Renewable energy is ready to supply all of Australia?s electricity" - 22 July 2014"  Professor Mark Diesendorf - Institute of Environmental Studies, UNSWJohn yet another misquote , you are quoting  the Australian not the Australian Bureau of StatisticsCompounding the lies now John, and as usual you refuse to provide a link or proper reference, the ABS is apolitical and would never use words like "Labor's controversial carbon tax"
Also I don't have to read the Australian to find the source of a quote, there's a great site called "google", and FYI I watched Rove's meltdown on the Daily Show, it was pure comedy!

John, when you're in a hole it's wise to stop digging..Did you even bother to read the article?
"Six independent reports have been released in the past two years looking at the impact of the RET on the electricity market. Reports undertaken by SKM-MMA (now Jacobs), ROAM Consulting, Schneider Electric, Intelligent Energy Systems, Bloomberg, and ACIL Allen (for the RET Review panel) all found that reducing the RET would result in a small increase in electricity prices in the short term, followed by a larger increase in prices in the medium and longer term."
Are you suggesting that the report for  ACIL Allen (for the RET Review panel) was massaged? You are correct, but not in the way you would like
"As requested by the Expert Panel, conventional coal entry will be permitted in the policy scenarios based purely on the economics of the technology within the market. As ACIL Allen's modelling assumes perfect foresight though, it ignores the risk of future carbon policies which may have a negative effect upon the commercial performance of such plant."
Ref  "Why were RET modellers instructed to ignore commercial reality?"They are not subsidies they are infrastructure investments, unlike the massive subsidies for oil and gas production..Short of chaining himself to a chimney, Shorten has already "stepped up", he had this to say in a Guardian interview on 10th Oct:  "A real 20% would be a massive cut. The renewable energy industry has made it very clear that it wouldn?t have a future under a real 20%. But the government has failed comprehensively in making the case to vandalise the RET. The industry says the real 20% is not viable for future investment. We are interested in what the market thinks and what works in the real world ? and we think the real 20% is unreal.?.
What a strange article, is Hewson actually attacking Shorten from the left?I agree that under the same genuine, non-subsidised,, actual conditions, renewables would be more competetive with heavily subsidised fossil fuelsDr Who I agree, the science should drive the policy, not the other way around... I question Hewson's motives for focusing on Shorten rather than AbbottIn July wind-power alone provided a record 43% of S.A's electricity supply, hardly a "footnote"
Ben you cannot argue that Coal combustion is a better means of energy production just because it provides more jobs and tax revenue.  That is only the result of subsidies and energy market dominance, and you also have to factor in externality costs like pollution and related health problems..
Ask the citizens of MorwellAh yes Lockheed Martin, the same 'skunk works' that sold us the junk F35 (don't-fly-it-near) Lightning ...I believe it when I see it...Gregory nice try but climate science drives climate policy, not visa-versa
Peter even the most sceptical of AGW scetptics would acknowledge that temp lags behind CO2 
Shorten &amp; Plibersek don't doubt Chris Baggoley's opinion, they doubt the govt's commitment to finding a solutionAs I constantly have to remind you Labor are not the govt,  Abbott and Co are, so it is their job to find a solution not sit on their hands  making lame excuses...Feldheim Germany , it's about 60 kms south of Berlin and Germany is phasing out nuclear powerIt's not just Abbott &amp; co who should be ignored, we also need to ignore the coal lobby's other friends in the Murdoch press. Their one-eyed position against a decision by the NSW govt not to allow the expansions of the Drayton South open-cut coal mine in the Hunter Valley and the  Invincible Colliery and Cullen Valley coal mines near Lithgow is evident in headlines like: 
"Mining firm Coalpac set for liquidation after Planning Assessment" Daily Telegraph 
"Pagoda rocks: Coalpac mine will be shut by 'joke' ruling" Daily Telegraph
"NSW miners furious over 'brutal' rejection"  Daily Telegraph
"Australian horse breeders halt Anglo American coal expansion plans" The Australian
"Drayton, Coalpac knockbacks a 'brutal double blow' for coal miners" The Australian
And people accuse climate scientists and their supporters of "exaggeration" and "alarmism"Another of Gough's unknown achievements was turning Malcolm Fraser from the far right toward the centre left..Q: What did Gough ever do for us?  He got us out of Vietnam, abolished the draft and the death penalty, gave us Medibank free uni education, needs-based federal school funding, Department of Aboriginal Affairs , Racial Discrimination Act , land rights, Trade Practices Act and forerunners of the ACCC. and Productivity Commission,  support for single mother's and the homeless, equal pay for women, Telecom, Australia Post. the Australian Legal Office, Law Reform Commission, Family Court ,  the National Gallery, 25% tariff cuts, the National Sewerage Program, reduced the voting age to 18 ,. gave the Northern Territory and ACT representation in the Senate, and replaced God Save the Queen
Gough Whitlam,  visionary and statesman of the calibre we may never see again.. Vale Gough, rest in peace.. 
There is an inherent risk of constantly running a strategy of distraction politics, one of those distractions  might take on a life of its own and shine a light on your own inadequacies. 
A light is now shining very brightly on this govt...I've noticed that the most recent gaffe's, Abbott "Shirt-front" and now Cormann's "Girly-Man" gaffes seem to occur in the neo-con safe haven that is Sky News.. 
Sky seems to help feed their delusions of adequacy"Why don't we as a country have infectious diseases experts available to send with teams to assist." 
We do actually, called an Australian Medical Assistance Team (AUSMAT) ,  Abbott &amp; co are too busy making lame excuses to do anything.
"6 LNP go to back benchers,"   Um it's now up to 10..... and counting 
The CBRN is related to terrorist attacks, an Australian Medical Assistance Team (AUSMAT) is what is required 
Hind-cast? They made a prediction of 2.5 deg in 1999 and it came true., end of story... 
And if by "latest paper" you are referring to "Palaeoclimate: A southern misfit" by Cobb, like a good scientist he doesn't actually provide a number, so i don't know where you plucked that 0.43C  from.Typical lazy argument, rather than search for a flaw in Allen et al's methodology, (they did in fact hind-cast back to 1946), you simply say "twas a lucky guess".. Not good enough 
"The forecast predicted that the world would warm by 0.25 deg C between the decade to 1996 and the decade to 2012.This was exactly what happened"
n
"Advantage shouldn't be a requirement, Ebola is a global threat that must be stopped quickly and we have medical and logistics staff ready to go at a moment's noticeNo it is the govt''s duty to be a good global citizen and to act on behalf of the Australian people , not sit on its hands and simply play politics as usual.. 
No the Medical and logistic support volunteers that are ready to go, and Pliberseck was simply doing her job exposing the usual coalition lies, while Morrison was waffling and  rudely interrupting her in a attempt to impress the faithfulThe CBRN is related to terrorist attacks, an Australian Medical Assistance Team (AUSMAT) is what is required 
Plibersek is the shadow foreign affairs spokes-person, I'd like to know why Scott  Morrison should be involved with a health issue....Bingo ! So instead of a rational discussion from the Health minister or the Foreign minister, we have the same old "border protection" political posturing from the immigration minister
"We will be a no surprises, no excuses government..." What a surprise, more excuses...Govts of both persuasions have been far too cosy with the banking industry, and most especially Macquarie Group. The rot started when Howard sold our international airports to Macquarie at vastly undervalued prices, allowing them to cash in $millions in access, billboard and signage revenue and to charge exorbitant retail rents and parking fees, without having to provide adequate security.
That, and the GFC taxpayer guarantees were yet more examples of corporations being allowed to capitalise profits, yet socialise losses and risk."An examination of Sydney Airport Corporation's financial accounts since its first full year of privatisation in 2003 shows the airport booked almost $8 billion in revenues during that time and gained tax benefits of almost $400 million. Although its report for June 2006 shows an entry of $425,000 for corporate tax, the picture is clouded by the complexity of the financial statements which includes a tax gain of $137 million in the interim accounts for that year. "
Airport's pot of gold " SHM August 23, 2013 Michael WestOcean heat absorption is not a constant, it varies constantly due to prevailing winds, ocean salinity, surface and undersea currentsair &amp; water pressure , ocean depth, thermoclines  ....etcAn odd comparison, our military contribution to the war on ISIS may be insignificant and symbolic, but the $500m pa cost real as are the RAAF planes in the sky over Iraq, shooting at real targets.  
This govt's actions to combat climate change however, are not just insignificant and symbolic, they are a complete sham. 
Our "contribution" of CO2 is not insignificant either, according to the 2013 National Greenhouse Gas Inventory we emitted 557million tonnes of CO2 in 2013, and fugitive emissions
accounted for 8% of that figure, an increase of 3.8%. 
 
If I may Forrest, I name planet earth, which just has the hottest September in 134 years of records..
Ref: "NASA records confirm September as hottest month ever"Howard was the master of distraction politics, and the master has taught his apprentice well.  Abbott's ridiculous shirt-front posturing in regard to Putin and MH17 is more of the usual diversion and distraction and an affront to the victims and their families.
It has certainly helped put the economic consequences of climate change off the agenda of the G20  and onto the sidelines of the media coverage, exactly where the denial lobby want it..

The Other John and that's why we issues with the Australian , science deals in fact not opinion.John that sounds a lot like denial science-fictionYes every other day the Age, the SMH and the Guardian headlines read "Kick this mob out"!I believe the ABCs "The Roast" political satire program summed it up perfectly yesterday.
News Ltd's idea of balanced reporting is 50% fact and 50% delusionNo Forrest,  Markson invented problems in journalism courses, media study lecturers are not anti-Murdoch they are pro factual reporting.
Facts are not subjective and the truth doesn't have an opinion
Forrest the usual baseless accusations, and I believe I claimed no more in-depth knowledge than yourself. 
Well Terry I honestly won't pretend to speak for any of the lecturers but I'm sure they are all  pro facts...Woolworths should be deeply ashamed for trying stir up and then cash in on the rampant xenophobic  tribalism that has infected this nation.  Abbott &amp; co's desperate attempt at wedge politics and anti-muslim alarmism has led to Mosques being desecrated and Muslim women being harassed on the streets only because of their religious piety.
It seems we are now one thing or another, either on "Team Australia" or we are not. 

None of Murdoch's rags are profitable, so if Devine and Bolt's salaries relied on readership they would be on the minimum wage...
The difference being Abbott's shirt front threat was a deliberate threat in front of TV cameras, Rudd's comment was a private, off-the-record remark.
All I want to hear from Putin is a full and frank confession of his military's involvement in the shooting down of MH17, or his resignation announcement. 
Anything else would simply be more of the same lies that he and his fellow oligarchs have been spouting for  decades now..You've got to admire the sheer gall of an IPA rent-seeker's advocate accusing the ANU of "playing  politics", perhaps Davidson is confusing ethics with politics since ethics seems more of leftist trait these days. 
The ANU decision was based on ethics not politics, they divested their coal mining interests because it is a dirty, polluting industry that funds the AGW denial lobby, not  because Tony Abbott hearts coal...Amber please stop parroting denial lobby lies, there is NO science now disproving man made global warming. 2010 was the hottest year on record, the BOM uses world's best practice to "homogenise" data, Antarctic sea ice has only increased due to a massive decrease in land ice melting and mixing with sea water to reduce the freezing point.
Tropical ever heard of a town called Bulga? It's in the Hunter Valley NSW and it's pristine enough, but the Mount Thorley Warkworth open-cut coal mine owned by Rio is pushing hard to mine the ridgeline which separates Bulga from the mine, despite originally committing never to do so.
They went as far as the Land and environment court, then the Supreme Court, with the blessing and help of the NSW govt..
I am amazed at all the so called free-market capitalists decrying the use of market mechanisms. On another thread we have the IPA's Sinclair Davidson claiming the ANU divestment of Coal mining shares is politically motivated, when it is simply following its own charter of ethical investment. 
Then we have the confected outrage of the right over the ultimate market mechanism in carbon pricing. 
They try in vain to portray it as socialist policy whilst ignoring the fact that Abbott's Direct Action is a far more socialist mechanism by "picking winners"
Hope - Reward - Opportunity - Three words no doubt hatched from a Coalition focus group and used to con the populace into believing that we're all along for the ride.. 
Vanstone's piece is the usual partisan dross and a blight on the SMH, she tries in vain to demean the debate with loaded questions like: "How often have you been told that the gap between rich and poor is growing, and directly or indirectly invited to believe that something is therefore radically wrong?" 
A classic example of argument downplay and using the word "radically" is just more lazy writing. 
Only the top 1%ers corporates and miners are being truly "rewarded" by this govt, they don't really care about inequality but word-lackey's like Berg, Bolt &amp; Vanstone help to blur the lines..Great points Lilly, another fact that Vanstone and her ilk conveniently overlook is the fact that 37% of Australia's taxation revenue is derived from indirect taxation, that everyone pays..
No John, the outrage is that Albrechston's return to the ABC board follows a conga line of conservative  ABC board members, like Donald McDonald, Michael Kroger, Judith Sloan, Ross McLean, John Gallagher, Steven Skala, Leith Boully, Ron Brunton, Peter Hurley, Jonathan Shier, Keith Windschuttle, and old friend Maurice "it's cooling, honest!" Newman. 
Peter as much as you would like it to, the truth doesn't have an opinion...
The "Australian" and most Murdoch rags would fail if it wasn't for Murdoch propping them up 
The usual BS John, you just can't help yourself can you?
The latest Essential Poll was 23/9/14, it has the ALP 53% vs L/NP 47% TPP
Newspoll on 19-21 /9/14 has ALP 49% vs L/NP 51%  Abbott 9% net dissatisfaction, and Shorten 5% net dissatisfaction

False figures as ever John, the latest Essential poll on 7/10/14 has the ALP 52% vs L/NP 48% TPP 
And the latest Essential poll released just today shows the same ALP 52% vs L/NP 48% TPPAlbo no it's a reminder that Labor is the one party that allows  MPs and even caucus members to express an opinion other than the standard party line...John, I was referring to Albanese  expressing  his opinion, which he did, and in public.. 
"This financial year it will be 257,376, according to the May Budget; only 18,753 higher than when Labor took office..But those numbers include the military. Strip out employees in uniform and the number of civilian public servants will have climbed just 8100 over Labor's six years."
Source: "Has the Canberra public service grown by 20,000 under Labor?" Peter Martin and Markus Mannheim SMH August 29, 2013John, quite correct , Shorten has Labor or ahead in EVERY poll...No TOJ it's more like the Murdoch fronted MSM have taken the editorial decision to fire up their tired old leadership speculation machine..
Boring.....BTW Tanya Pliberseck was not even mentioned  in this article.What's with all the violent metaphors of late, has Abbott's war mongering and idiotic posturing OS taken hold of the media narrative? 
Abbott says he wants to "shirt front" Putin at G20 and now apparently Shorten "can't land a punch". Why can't we just say Shorten had little option but to agree to the deployment of our armed forces to fight ISIS.? 
I miss the good old days when we could have a civilised debate without it descending into pugilism 
Parliamentary democracy: - A system of government in which power is vested in the people, who exercise their power through elected representatives in Parliament. - Definition courtesy Parliamentary Website..
What is a democracy when power is more vested in vested interests than ion the people.? 
What is a democracy when a PM is elected based on trust and then breaks almost every promise?
Just like Abbott &amp; co, it is a pale imitation
In the latest affront to democracy this authoritarian govt has now issued a threat to Public servants at the ATO with official punishment if they mention the name of Public Service Minister Eric Abetz in internal online discussions about pay and conditions at the agency.
The Taxation Office has officially confirmed the policy is in place, saying discussion must remain "apolitical".
So it seem the right to free speech does not cover criticism of govt ministers any more....Rudd passed 309 bills and Gillard passed 432 for a total of 741 bills.
Even if as you say the coalition voted in favour of 85% that's only 630 bills they allowed to be passed and they voted against 111 bills.You mean this standard union press release?
"Surveys have been cut altogether, we've seen changes to the methodology for doing surveys that really aren't working properly. Moving to trying to collect data online, that's just leading to an awful lot of workarounds being done and often that's just leading to interviewers having to go back into the field and re-interview people." 
CPSU deputy national president Alistair Waters.
Rather than just issue a blanket dismissal of their claims why don't you actually try to answer them?
No it isn't self explanatory, unless surveys NOT "been cut altogether", there have been no "changes to the methodology for doing surveys" . there have been no "awful lot of workarounds being done" and interviewers are not "having to go back into the field and re-interview people."Mick the CSIRO contributes $500 million in royalties from innovations like Wi Fi , anti-flu drug Relenza, the Hendra Virus vaccine, extended wear contact lenses, plastic banknotes, dual flush toilets, permanent press material and AeroguardThe commponwealth  public service grew by only 8,100 during Labor's six years, less than the population growth..."The fact is the previous government left the ABS with insufficient resources to be able to upgrade their computer systems and also some structural issues that need to be addressed including the fact they haven't got a chief statistician" 
That is Joe Hockey's "economic analysis" , an absurd claim considering his own budget cuts to the ABS worth over $68 million compared to Labor's cuts of only $10 million
This govt can't cut their way to greatness, nor can they blame their way to credibility,  Hockey has gone to the most extraordinary lengths by actually trying to blame Labor for the ABS' issues: 
"The fact is the previous government left the ABS with insufficient resources to be able to upgrade their computer systems and also some structural issues that need to be addressed including the fact they haven't got a chief statistician"
This absurd claim is despite his own budget cuts to the ABS worth over $68 million compared to Labor's cuts of only $10 millionHate to burst your conspiracy bubble, but: 
Yes it was News Ltd "SBY 'angry' Abbott didn't apologise" - The Australian Nov 19, 2013
Yes it was Fairfax.. SBY slams Abbott's handling of spy drama SMH Nov 19, 2013 -
It was also the Guardian- "Indonesian president accuses Tony Abbott of 'belittling' spy revelations" The Guardian 19 Nov 2013.
What they all reported were SBY's own words  "I also regret the statement of Australian Prime Minister that belittled this tapping matter on Indonesia, without any remorse" SBY - 19 Nov 2013No it's a great example of the ABC and the Guardian doing their jobs, reporting all the news without fear or favour..We have seen the end result of the MSM stirring up anti-muslim hysteria in the harassment of innocent Muslim women, the sword that wasn't and the sailor who falsely claimed to have been harassed for wearing a uniform. The hysteria hasn't just affected innocent Muslim women either, there was the senior Imam on his way to Mecca for the Hajj, harassed by Customs officials at Sydney Airport for over two hours, they delayed him for so long that he missed any chance of making it to Mecca in time, It is plainly obvious that all of this anti-Muslim hysteria has its origins in Abbott's 37 strong media unit / spin directorate, Abbott's spin-meisters have been working double overtime whipping up this nationalistic "Team Australia" fervour, milking every tiny detail for all its worth, then feeding it to a very hungry , very lazy press gallery.
With all the cross-contamination of stories one might argue that Abbotts's 37 and Morrison's 99 are like Murdoch's new tax-payer funded research unit , they really should spend a bit more time checking the facts before regurgitation.The original design of the MRRT was ok until it was hijacked by the "MRRT Policy Transition Group", chaired by former BHP shairman Don Argus and then Resources Minister Martin Ferguson, who now works for the petroleum industry.. 
The bodged Tax was presented to the Gillard govt under threat of another campaign of attack ads like the 6 week $22m campaign that brought Rudd undone.
Greg says that "The Government has a dream that Australia will be a nation of lifters, not leaners" , and he is dead wrong.
The government's dream is that Australia will grow to accept this kind of insulting and divisive rhetoric as part of the national discussion, and I sincerely hope that will never happen. 
This kind of attitude comes from our Supreme Leaner Tony Abbott, who has never held a proper job in his entire life.
The figures help explain the govt's poor polling post-budget  , but they also show a real disconnect between conservative voters and coalition policy. It seems even 52% of coalition voters understand that making corporations pay more tax is actually good for the economy, yet Abbott &amp; Hockey continue to ignore this and push their low corporate tax agenda. 
Peter the usual neo-con propaganda,  Rudd passed 309 bills and Gillard 432 for a total of 741, but the Coalition only voted in favour of 80% or 592 bills, so they in fact voted against 149 bills.Oh dear comprehension fail..They voted against  149 bills, that's not at all "reasonable"
Un-Realist, stop spreading that $1 billion a month lie, unless you are willing to admit you are just as ignorant as Sloppy Joe regarding the difference between gross and net debt
Ref ABC Fact check: "Is the Government paying $1 billion a month in interest on its debt?"Obama has taken 19 vacations totaling 125 days so far,  Bush took 65 totaling 407 days at the same point in his presidency.
Oh and Bush gave up golf in 2003 due to a dodgy knee...I was appalled to see Abbott &amp; Defence Minister Johnston hold a press conference on Friday to announce that eight RAAF Super Hornets would shortly be used in air-strikes against ISIS targets in Iraq. 
Whatever happened to operational security? How is it that RAAF "in-air operations" are somehow less sensitive than RAN "on-water operations"? 
Abbott and the govt refuse to answer to this obvious flaw in their dubious argument for a smoke screen over RAN operations, it would fully expose their double standards"It's self evident that you have to make some adjustments, I?m not going to rule anything in or anything out.? Finance Minister Mathias Cormann on Sky News on Sunday.
So  you think the ABC should be taken to task for repeating his words? 
"The Guardian approached the ABC, and both organisations shared information and worked together to jointly report the story. There was close co-operation on the process and on the timing of the publication and broadcast, but each organisation took full responsibility and had full editorial control over the material they each published and broadcast. The ABC published and broadcast its stories within a few days of receiving the material."
Statement by Alan Sunderland, ABC?s head of policyThis cabinet disciplined? This cabinet is about as undisciplined as they get, and has been leaking like a sieve...
- The cabinet revolt over Abbott's PLL, many MPs and Senators have  threatening to cross the floor, which forced Abbott to water down the scheme.  
- A leak to the Telegraph about their School Chaplaincy policy.  
- A leak to Fairfax of their draft of the terms of reference for the Productivity Commission inquiry into the Fair Work Act, showing a plan to slash penalty rates.
- A leak revealed that Abbott had skipped a traditional dinner with Coalition Senators to attend a fundraiser for Kevin Andrews, then was late to a joint party room meeting the next day after visited a cancer research centre  just so he could claim travel entitlements.
So you judge a govt's worth purely by the number of leaks? I judge a govt by their actual performance and the reputation they present overseas. Abbott govt.. epic fail!I don't either, I was arguing against the Barrie's assertion that this cabinet is united and used the leaks as evidence.
Something about a straw-man..
A competent govt would have introduced a fair and equitable budget that the people could get behind, this one is so on the nose a majority of measures are still being negotiated almost 6 months on..99% of the budget? Where did you pluck that fudge from? Labor did pass the appropriations bill, but well over half the budget measure are still in negotiation
Labor managed to save us from recession and implemented many new reforms like the 50% instant asset write off, simpler BAS reporting for small businesses, invested  $14 million to help in  e-commerce take-up, appointed a Small Business Commissioner and  amended the Trade Practices Act to protect small business against the big business practices like predatory pricing and false and misleading representation.
They also laid the framework for Gonski, NBN &amp; NDIS, despite Abbott's best efforts to derail and sandbag those vital reforms, In the end he had to give up and say me too , until election night when he reneged on all...Custard "everything she had set out to do" was hijacked by the Abbott opposition last year, until they were elected. 
Remember the unity ticket?Paul no one who truly cares about this nation deserves this govt, even if they did vote for them. 
Those of us who saw through Abbott &amp; co's deceitful agenda shouldn't blame the poor souls who were sold a dud. 
We all deserve better....


Openly left, Like who? There is one openly right radio program and host, Counterpoint  &amp; Amanda VanstonePaid socialist activist , like say the Australian's former economics editor George Megalogenis ?
"Welcome to structural deficit-land" George Megalogenis The Australian September 12, 2009Turnbull has assimilated into this govt far better than I anticipated , he is now very adept at their typical game of "don't blame me for what I say or do". He dodges blame telling us it's the ABC that is cutting Lateline not his govt even though Abbott promised prior to the election that there will be ,"no cuts to the ABC or SBS"
Next he will be trying to tell us that the imminent demise of public television will not be his fault for banishing them from free to air, but because of their inability to move into the "new mediums"  like the internet..
Truly sad...


Tony Jones only ever interrupts to correct an obvious lie, which is why Pyne can never get a word in..
So you rely on the opinion of people who don't know?Amber please stop the crackpot conspiracy stories. the names of denial scientists are posted here all the time, even though they are funded by the denial lobby through the Heartland Institute, Fred Singer ($5,000 a month) and Aussie "scientists" Bob Carter and Ian Plimer (US $1550 each a month)Peter that rare earth element fairy story has been done to death, Neodymium is widely used in China as fertilizer, it is also used in lasers and cryogenics, and a Neodymium alloy is used to make magnets in motors and in some  wind turbines that use permanent magnet generators
"NASA scientists say 2012 was the ninth warmest of any year since 1880, continuing a long-term trend of rising global temperatures. With the exception of 1988, the nine warmest years in the 132-year record all have occurred since 2000, with 2010 and 2005 ranking as the hottest years on record." 
: NASA Finds 2012 Sustained Long-Term Climate Warming Trend Jan. 15, 2013"NASA scientists say 2012 was the ninth warmest of any year since 1880, continuing a long-term trend of rising global temperatures. With the exception of 1988, the nine warmest years in the 132-year record all have occurred since 2000, with 2010 and 2005 ranking as the hottest years on record."
Source: "NASA Finds 2012 Sustained Long-Term Climate Warming Trend Jan. 15, 2013 Goddard Goddard Institute for Space Studies at NASA
So, that would be no warming for 3 years 10 months, of La Nina conditions...
Thanks Peter &amp; Jackie, it is heartening to see the wind being taken out of the sails of the denial movement, despite their ever increasing barrage of verbal pollution. None were more offensive than Tony Abbott's RET "adviser" Maurice Newman's absurd global cooling claims on Lateline. They really are getting  quite desperate now, and the Essential Research reinforces the Lowy Institute Poll that showed 63% of Australians want the government to take a leadership role on reducing carbon emissions,  28% say it should wait for an international consensus, and only 7% say the government should do nothing.
