"How about the former director of offshore processing in Australia's immigration detention camps (Greg Lake) who claims asylum-seekers are coached and encouraged to attempt self-harm by refugee advocates who then use the incidents as political capital."

I'd say it might be on a par with Tony Abbott's "brave whistleblower" Kathy Jackson, whose testimony against Craig Thomson (in yet another attempt to bring down the Gillard government).  

Having served her purpose, Kathy Jackson is herself now appearing before the Royal Commission into unions, facing claims of alleged fraud to the amount that would make Craig Thomson's misspending (currently under appeal) look like petty cash.  Much 'political capital' was gained by the Libs with this one and it has since been revealed that Kathy herself has some pretty strong Liberal ties.

Things aren't always as they seem...Well Andie, with this current government's secrecy, we have no way of knowing if any boats have gone down at sea, with loss of life - it wouldn't be reported, simply because it 'didn't arrive'.  

Don't forget, one boat actually made it to Christmas Island some months ago, with those on board living there for a week, without ever being discovered by our crack ADF - proof that a boat might not even be detected before it went down.  And keep in mind, MH370 still remains undetected somewhere in these oceans, in spite of the fortune and the wealth of technology that has been invested in this project, so a small fishing boat would be easily overlooked.  

I must also point out, the Abbott government is not totally without deaths at sea. By the week ending 01 October 2013, 56 deaths at sea had occurred under their watch.Coogera, Reza Barati was not an ILLEGAL migrant.  The Scott Morrison rhetoric, naming asylum seeker boats as 'illegal arrivals' was a deliberate strategy to influence people just like you to regard the PEOPLE as illegal, which they are not, rather than the boats.  This is the deceitful way this government operates - create a lie and hope to get away with it.  

Australia is very much responsible for these asylum seekers, the government pays big money to PNG in 'inducements' (some might even call them bribes) to use their country to ensure no asylum seekers set foot on Australian soil, to keep true to Abbott's 'Stopping the Boats' election promise (one of the few he is determined to implement).  The 'security' firm hired to 'safeguard' these people are on our payroll.  It's very much Australia's responsibility.

"Just collateral damage" when describing the death of this man, an architect in his homeland, is not only so derogatory to another human being, but by that same token, you should also regard those who lost their lives on the MH17 aircraft in the same way?  Or are their lives somehow more important because they were mostly Europeans?Meanwhile, on tonight's The Drum, Warren Mundine and Rohan Dean have joined the Abbott fan club, overplaying his role in all this.  Please, at the end of the day, Australia isn't half as important as Tony Abbott and many of those who support him, would like to believe.

Hear!  Hear! James g.  Abbott's taking every opportunity to project himself as a world leader on the back of this tragedy, but meanwhile, back at the ranch, asylum seekers are still being held prisoner by this mean spirited government, hellbent on not tarnishing their record of 'Stopping the Boats'.Tony Abbott has just announced he is committing 50 AFP officers to the MH17 crash site, to assist with investigations.  Yet let us not forget, he refused to send ANY AFP officers to PNG, to 'assist with investigations' into the murder of Reza Barati - an asylum seeker who was our responsibility.

Other countries are involved with this tragedy, in particular the Netherlands, yet he is trying to make it Australia's - first and foremost.  His 'John Wayne moment' against the 'injuns'...Andie, the company which is overseeing the 'welfare' (I use that term very loosely) of asylum seekers is on the payroll of the Australian government (aka the Australian taxpayer), thus our responsibility.  
 
FYI, on the news tonight Tony Abbott stated we have committed 50 AFP officers to be part of the investigation at the crash site of MH17 - in fact, they are in London as we speak, on stand-by.  Just because the facts don't support your argument, please don't try to portray me as a liar.This is a good article Jonathon, which most commenting here seem to be fixated on your view of Abbott's handling the MH17 tragedy.

As you quote Tony Abbott "We owe it as well to the families of the dead to find out exactly what has happened and exactly who is responsible".

Not a semblance of regarding in the death of Reza Barati (and injuries of many others).  In fact, the opposite:  deliberate misreporting by Scott Morrison, initially painting the victims as the perpetrators, then refusing to send our AFP police to assist with the investigations.  This matter, months down the track, has still not had a satisfactory outcome, with those responsible for this crime still at large and unpunished.  

The difference in the handling of these two incidents, one on foreign soil, involving other countries as well as Australia and the other, the full responsibility of the Australian government, could not be more stark.It's not an 'invasion' and these people are not 'illegals' - much as Scott Morrison has done his darnedest to portray them as such.

Trying to sidestep the current issues, the murder of one man and the imprisonment of 157 others currently on the High Seas, by blaming previous governments, simply does not hold up.  You've been listening to Tony Abbott and Scott Morrison for too long (and their predecessor - John Howard).Artof..., taxing the churches would also be a good move.  Just watching some of the memorial service at St Paul's in Melbourne today, was evidence of the extravagance and waste 'in the name of God' that churches indulge in.  Seems like they can afford to do some 'lifting' as well.  After all, when it's all boiled down, they are run as businesses...John 1, intelligence does not equate to common sense.  With every passing day, Tony Abbott has shown he is lacking common sense.  As for economics - he has admitted himself he has no interest in economics - he finds it 'boring'.  Rather a strange admission from one in his role - especially as he has a degree in the subject (and an obsession with blaming Labor on the state of the economy)!

As I recall, Julia Gillard was pilloried for admitting that Foreign Affairs was not her forte, that education actually was.  In spite of her admission, she very quickly went on to shine on the world stage.  There is no evidence that Abbott is 'shining' in the world of economics - in fact, far from it...In Qld we have the 'War on Bikies' and in Canberra 'The War on Terror Mark 2)...Unfortunately, CCTV doesn't seem to be a deterrent, more like a useful tool for identifying perpetrators AFTER the event.  Not much reason to feel safe."..which, by the way, they won't need evidence for or a warrant to arrest and detain you for it."

Using Qld as an example, the other day there was (once again) a protest at the 'anti-bikie laws', which are seeing innocent people being punished as a result.  One person taking part was a 'social biker' who said he'd been pulled up by police 21 times, simply because he was riding a motorbike!In the eighties, in the final years of Bjelke-Petersen government in Qld, I spent considerable time writing 'letters to the editor', both in my regional daily and in the Courier Mail, protesting at their governance.  

I have since found out that the government had kept a file on me!  I have no idea what purpose they thought it would serve, but even had I known at the time, I would never have stopped my letter writing - more likely it would have spurred me on to write more.It has been reported that this will cost $500 million to set up, then more will be outlaid in running it, with little evidence of success. 

Now, I've heard that same story before...cost a fortune to set up, even more to run it for little outcome - now, what was that?... Oh yes, that's right, Direct Action!!OBE, when someone criticizes the government, it does not automatically make them 'of the Left'.  Considering there is so much to criticize this government for currently, it is a given that there will be people from all persuasions, speaking out against them.

As I recall, there wasn't much of an outcry when ABC's Chris Uhlmann featured on 7.30 Report night after night, with reports of the latest Labor misstep real or 'trumped up', when Labor was in government - with not a hint of applying any scrutiny to the alternative government, which assisted LNP to slide into office, unchallenged.

No doubt his efforts are being rewarded today, with Tony Abbott promoting Uhlmann's book, co-written with another controversial journalist, Steve Lewis - a thinly-disguised critique of the previous government, passing as 'fiction'.  What a cosy arrangement.  

I suppose we should consider ourselves fortunate that the book launch occurred at Parliament House, or we taxpayers' might have been landed with the bill for the travel costs (remembering that Abbott has a short memory span)!aGuy, I guess you've fallen for the Pyne spin when he says Labor 'cut funding' to education and that they (LNP) have increased it.  

The truth is, Qld, WA and NT refused what was known as the Gonski funding (just playing spiteful politics), so the money that was on offer for them was withheld.  When the LNP came to office, these belligerent states came on board - at a price.  That original money was restored to education, plus extra incentive payments for those who held out.  

Not only did this government reward these rogue states unfairly, to win them over, they now claim Labor cut funding while they have increased it, but not the dodgy circumstances as to how it came about.  They are experts at spin and gullible people fall for it.Exactly Gerard.  Trouble is, Abbott's ego can't let him be seen to be wrong, which is why the PPL is causing him grief.  It doesn't even fit with their greatest lie - 'budget emergency'.  

Couple that with all his punishing budget measures, broken promises and complete disregard for the less well-off, who are being forced to be the 'lifters' for the 'leaners' at the top, he will go down in history as our worst PM ever. 

I thought Howard was bad enough, but he's beginning to look like Mother Theresa compared to Abbott!It was a 'tongue-in-cheek' comment.Agreed Kerrie.  And for all those job applications, there is a financial cost to that applicant.  Finer details such as these, have been totally overlooked by this incompetent government, hellbent on portraying themselves as 'getting tough on dole bludgers' to appeal to a certain element in our community.  They haven't got a clue.

There will be no financial gain out of any of these measures as much more will be expended down the track, repairing the damage these measures will incur."There will always be people trying to best the system"

Never more in evidence than those who sit in our Parliament.  Travel rorts, charity rides, book promotions, personal libraries etc etc etc.....As you say Oaktree, the 'personal effects' are but of little consequence, when you look at the risks taken to retrieve them.  Besides, how do people identify these personally as belonging to their loved one - the belongings of almost 300 hundred people?  Most men wouldn't even know what's in their partner's handbag.  Anyway, things of consequence, such as mobile phones (with personal photographs etc) have long been scavenged.All great comments from 'aelious' through to 'Rabbithole'.  Tony Abbott has been bignoting himself (once again) on the world stage, in yet another exercise of political opportunism on the back of people's grief.  And the media (once again) are going along with it, singing his praises - even here on the ABC.

As I recall, Tony Abbott was quick off the mark to nominate the Ukranian rebels as the culprits, implicating Putin in the process.  This is something that might come back to bite him.  Current information filtering through, suggests otherwise, so no doubt the reason for the rhetoric now being less shrill.  Now it's all about (hand on heart) 'bringing them home'.  

For the way this was played out in the beginning, one could have been forgiven for almost thinking this was an Australian plane with Australian passengers, with the Australian government single-handedly dealing with the perpetrators.

Nice try Alfie, Bill Shorten is rating better than Tony Abbott at the moment, so it's imperative that the LNP and their supporters sling all the mud his way that they can.Actually WS, Labor continues to face more scrutiny from the media than the government seems to do.  Nothing has changed since the election on that front.  Labor is still placed under the microscope just as when they were in government, the government is still acting like the junkyard dogs they were in Opposition.

'Repulsive' is a word best used to describe Scott Morrison and his un-Christian policies.  Hypocritical in the extreme from someone who regards his 'faith' as his main hobby."We praise children for doing things they are meant to do.  Apparently you're of the opinion we need to treat abbott et al as children"

That's Tony in a nutshell.  He was indulged by his parents and sisters during his formative years and he still expects the same now.  If he doesn't get the pat on the head, he 'throws a tanty'.  There's is no evidence yet of the 'adults being in charge' with him or his government."By the way I heard a reliable story that the earth is not flat."

Sshhh - don't tell Tony, he's still a believer....Ravensclaw, you don't mention what year you got your first job.  I remember when I started out, it was a case of WHICH job to go for, not IF I get a job, as is the case now.

As for the much-quoted 'fruitpicking' - the pay can vary from $15-$20 per hour, with fruitpickers working 6 days per week and being capable of carrying a 15kg pack of fruit/move a 15kg ladder.  In other words, only for the physically fit.  It's also seasonal, so it wouldn't be long before you were once again looking for work.

You seem to suggest that being on unemployment benefits these days is viewed as a 'badge of honour', rather than the 'shame job' tag of the past.  You've been reading Eric Abetz's script (and falling for it), in making these false assumptions.  

There are very few people who wish to remain on the pittance the dole pays, by choice.

..And the latest poll analysis on Insiders, shows that Labor has been consistently doing better than the LNP since December last year.  Hard to ignore that.  Also noteworthy was the revelation that at this stage into their term, John Howard was +19% (might be 16%), Kevin Rudd was +35% and Tony Abbott is - 32%.  Speaks volumes...

No doubt there will be some improvement for Abbott, due to the MH17 factor, but he can only milk it for a bit longer (and hasn't he been doing just that, in spades) - then we'll all see the leopard hasn't changed his spots.Joe has finally come out and made a belated apology.  Of course, the fact that Tony Abbott has arrived back in Australia, is purely coincidental, Joe 'didn't get pushed to apologize'.  Sure, we buy that.

Interesting to see that a SMH poll currently running has 85% saying 'it's too little, too late'.  Sorry Joe, people arent' as gullible as they were before the election!Before the election, Tony Abbott promised a return of the 'golden years of the Howard government'.  He forgot to mention that included the 'War on Terror Mark ll'.  He is in his glory at the moment, taking advantage of the current opportunity which has fallen into his lap, to promote the atmosphere of fear which John Howard used to such political advantage. 

It has been the ideal time to push for tighter scrutiny on us mere mortals too, while also allowing him to scrap the 18C changes, which were so very unpopular, without too much 'loss of face'. 

All the while, for all the rhetoric, for all the expense spent on 'keeping our borders safe', we have seen this dangerous person (Kaled Sharrouf) able to leave the country on his brother's passport, taking his wife and children with him.  

It's not as if that's just because he was leaving the country either - getting in seems just as easy, when we cast our minds back to the asylum seeker boat that made its way, undetected, to Christmas Island, where the passengers embarked and lived for several days more, before they allowed themselves to be 'discovered'.  Not that these people were ever any threat, but the point is, they MIGHT have been.  

So much for our surveillance...It has been reported that this plan to collect data will cost at least $500million to set up and multi-millions to run it - even though there are no guarantees as to its effectiveness.  

It seems that even though we have a 'budget emergency', we can afford to introduce this scheme, which will be as costly and as ineffective as the government's Direct Action Plan.

It seems the author here, Paula Matthewson, had to salve her conservative conscience for taking Joe Hockey to task, by taking a stick to Bill Shorten at the same time, as some measure of repentance.  Spare me please, not everyone is as gullible as those who keep supporting this LNP government.  

Anyway, the gist of it all is not whether Hockey presented the 'facts' (figures skewed to suit this particular argument), but the way in which the comment was delivered.  One would have thought that with an already much-loathed budget to sell (still), a person in Joe Hockey's position would have had the common sense to present his argument in a much more tactful way.  

He didn't, he failed dismally and therein lies his problem...The conservative troops have certainly been galvanized into action to defend Joe Hockey, going by the comments here!  The issue here is the attitude of the Treasurer, more than the factual content.  

This is a man who owns a 200-hectare cattle property in Qld, has a wealthy partner and is hardly earning a 'pittance' himself, making insensitive and demeaning comments about a section in our community who is struggling to make ends meet.  

Whether the 'facts' prove he is correct, and that is questionable, is not really the point - it's his delivery which has shown him up to be arrogant in the extreme.  It's a pretty stupid move, when his budget is already struggling to get approval.  

I guess while Tony is away, someone had to step in to make the 'foot in mouth' comments to fill the gap for the Keystone Cops...Well said.  Most of these people vote for the Nationals, without whom the Liberal Party would struggle to get into government.  I believe some of those 'rural people' are still waiting for their drought relief payments, which Tony Abbott and Barnaby Joyce trumpeted earlier in the year, conveniently announced before some by-elections.Realist, there's a big difference between methods of travel and communication and outcomes for people's health.  The catch-cry of the government was 'budget emergency', thus their need to impose harsh measures.  

The problem is, the co-payment they are trying to inflict will not even be going to fund Medicare as one would expect, but it's going into research for the future (or so they say).  To many less affluent, $7 extra is a big deal, as it may also require a $7 payment for pathology or medical imaging, tacked on to that GP visit.

The hollow claim that the LNP makes - that Labor willingly introduced a 'co-payment' with the PBS, is false.  This is not a co-payment to see a pharmacist, it is a discounted price for (certain) scripted medicines, which normally would cost a whole lot more otherwise.Kevin Andrews is not just attending this conference, he is opening and closing the event.  Also, the state Attorney-General, Liberal MP Robert Clark, is delivering a 'welcome' address!  

The conference is a hard-line pro-life event, which also has an anti-gay stance.  For government members to be so involved with this event, is worrying in the extreme.

As I recall, Julia Gillard copped enormous flak when she referred to the 'men in blue ties' who would see the issue of abortion back on the agenda.  Well the blue ties have already come to pass and now, with key government ministers involved with this controversial event, along with Eric Abetz' recent remarks, revisiting the legality of abortion, may not be so unlikely after all.John1, the VOTERS have already decided for themselves that this government has not performed well - they are not waiting for an election.  It's nothing to do with an 'obstructionist senate', no matter how to try to shift the blame on to them.  The blame is laid fully at the feet of this dysfunctional and incompetent government.Absolutely toot, sprouting the Lord's Prayer in Parliament, then go in to battle - what a load of hypocritical nonsense...I agree Yank.  Let those who wish, seek it out.  The time could be well spent on improving literacy and numeracy.  Now there's a novel idea...In the highly unlikely event that all those scientists are proven wrong, where's the harm in providing a cleaner planet?  With deniers it is all about the money, not about the outcomes...I agree Harvey.  Not only did the Greens opt for the 'perfect' solution initially, they then went on to use the minority government as a means to hold a stick to Labor.  

Unfortunately, they didn't back Labor on their Carbon Pricing, after it was introduced.  How often did we see Christine Milne, once she took over as leader, come out in support of Julia Gillard - even when Julia was being trounced by Abbott and let down by the media, who chose to run with Abbott's "Liar, Liar" theme?  

Even tonight on ABC News, old footage of PM Gillard is being shown (twice that I saw), with the old, familiar "There will be no Carbon Tax under a government I lead..." - visibly cutting it short, so we didn't hear the rest "but let me make it perfectly clear, I WILL put a price on carbon, moving to an ETS" and yes, before anyone rushes in, she said she would take it to the people at the next election.  

All Julia Gillard was 'guilty' of, was introducing it earlier, because of the changed circumstances of the government.  Hollow claims that she did not have a mandate, should have been discounted by the fact that Labor had an overwhelming majority in 2007, WITH plans to address climate change.  Yet, Julia was 'crucified' and the Greens and the media allowed it to happen.

Tony Abbott has had no victory today, he simply had success with pushing a lie - the first in a long line of Abbott lies.  The longer he is in office, this country will be the poorer."The absence of warming" - so you are prepared to ignore the catastrophic extreme weather events that are becoming the norm, rather than what were previously 'once in a hundred years' events, for that reason are you?

So where does your irrefutable 'proof' come from, to substantiate your own claims JohnM?

MT_Syd, there's not much chance of any of your ideas being implemented by this government - not when we have the Treasurer describing windfarms as "obnoxious and a blight on the landscape".  Not much evidence yet, of the adults being in charge - especially after viewing their performance in the House of Reps in QT today.Agreed D.G.  Those representing consumers, the very people who have the most to lose, are not happy with this watering down of Labor's safeguards.

Before the election, Tony Abbott was emphatic there would be 'no deals done with minor parties or Independents'.  Yet once again, Clive Palmer has struck a deal with the Abbott government.  What's the go here?  Could the fact that Mal Brough sits in our Parliament (and knowledge of how that came to be) hold any sway?Realist FYI:

Interview with David Koch, Sunrise, Seven Network - Sept 06, 2013: (day before the election)

"DAVID KOCH:  We are now joined by Opposition Leader, Tony Abbott, from Melbourne.  The Seven News ReachTEL poll has the Palmer United Party on 7 per cent.  Look, you are home and hosed by the looks of it in the House of Representatives, not so much in the Senate.  Would you do a deal with Clive Palmer to get laws through the Senate, if his party gains the balance of power?

TONY ABBOTT:  Kochie, I want to form a strong majority government in both houses of Parliament.  If people want to get away from the squalid deals of the last three years, they have got to vote for the Coalition, for the Liberal or the National Party candidate in both the House or the Senate, otherwise we could easily end up with another hung Parliament.  We unfortunately had a situation where independents mucked up the last Parliament.  Let's not let Independents and minor parties muck up the next Parliament.

DAVID KOCH:  So, you wouldn't do a deal then with Clive Palmer?

TONY ABBOTT:  I want to form a strong and stable majority government that builds a stronger economy so everyone can get ahead, which scraps the carbon tax, which ends the waste, which stops the boats and which builds the roads of the 21st century and that's not what Clive wants to do."

Tony Abbott could not even answer the question honestly and events currently show why - because he IS doing "squalid"' "dodgy" "backroom" "done-in-the-dark" deals (his descriptions - not mine)!  It's laughable that you raise the issue of integrity...It's about one person irrationally refusing to accept that a relationship was over (with good reason obviously) and an attitude of "if I can't have you no one will"."If a Liberal did anything wrong, it would be seen as a mistake and forgiven quickly."

There would also be top-class legal backing...Ben, if you believe for one minute that Arthur Sinodinos has done nothing wrong, then perhaps he could be charged with taking money under false pretences - after all, he 'can't recall' any of his duties in not one, but two positions he held as recently as three years ago!  

He still sits in our Parliament - waiting in the wings to be reinstated.  Can we taxpayers afford someone with such poor powers of recall, holding such a position, at our expense?Sorry John1, that's just the problem, they didn't.  Sure, they said they'd 'stop the boats' but they didn't say the illegal lengths they would go to, to achieve that - or give the appearance of achieving that, because as yet, they haven't stopped the boats, no matter how they try to claim otherwise.  

They claimed they'd 'fix the budget', but they didn't say they would do it by measures which would further disadvantage the disadvantaged, while the well-off remain virtually protected - those who have the wherewithal still able to indulge in rorts which let them off even more lightly.

They claimed to be side by side with Labor on the NDIS and the Gonski education reforms, BEFORE the election, but immediately on being voted in, set about dismantling or delaying or cutting funds to them.

They did NOT tell us what they were going to do - in fact, not only that, they LIED to us.John1, you are wasting your 'talent' here - Tony should be employing you as one his spin doctors...Horrocks - returning people to the country from which they fled to escape persecution, not to the country from which they travelled;  removing asylum seekers from their boat, outside of Australian waters (current);  entering Indonesian waters illegally to return asylum seekers, then claiming the Navy did this 'accidentally' (on THREE occasions?) - spare me please!Exactly James.  Tony Abbott's claim that he has a carte blanche 'mandate' for his policies, can only apply to his pre-election promises.  Since coming to office, most of those promises have been broken, so in effect, he has NO mandate.John, there is no "Labor's budget mess", that's just another concocted claim made by the Abbott government, to get people like you to vote LNP.  They came to government by deceit, they are operating by deceit.  

You've got one thing right though: "These were repeated hundreds of times before the election" - operating on the theory if you 'tell a lie big enough and often enough, it will be believed'.  It's an old ploy, employed with great success, in the days of Hitler - hardly any recommendation.  

I also recall they repeated they would not do 'any back-room deals with minor parties/independents' and now, what we've seen is them tying themselves in knots, trying to get support for their Carbon 'Tax' Repeal legislation, 'doing deals with minor parties/independents'.  Their Budget, as it stands, will not get passed and they are currently being challenged in the High Court for their latest inhumane treatment of asylum seekers.

I see no success stories for the government so far.The only ones who are saying "the previous government blew the books up" are Tony Abbott et al and those stupid enough to fall for it.

Economists of all stripes agree that Labor left no 'budget emergency', no 'debt crisis' - it's just the fearmongering tactics of the Abbott government.  Sure, savings need to be made, Labor had previously acknowledged that - and which Labor was already doing before the election, figures showed it had already successfully reduced government spending.  

But there are much fairer ways in which this government could be making their savings, which they are choosing to ignore.John1, please clarify "you and your ilk".  Stating facts is not whingeing and unlike you, I don't blindly accept the LNP spin without question.  When this government introduces a fair and decent policy (and provides full details incidentally), I will give them my support, but ten months into their term, I'm still yet to see that happen.Harry, as I said previously, Labor acknowledged that savings had to be found.  Already they had reduced government spending substantially.  There are many more economists who state we do not have a budget emergency, than those who do.

To put it into some sort of perspective, in 2010, the UK had a 'budget crisis/debt emergency'.  The projected deficit was 10% of gross domestic product and net public debt was in excess of 60% of GDP.  By comparison, Australia has a prospective deficit of 2% of GDP and net public debt of 15% of GDP.

One of Australia's most respected economists, Saul Eslake, said to use those same terms ('budget crisis/debt emergency') to describe Australia's position, is "an abuse of the English language".Why is it that whenever someone makes rational comment they are labelled 'Labor apologists'?  Peter Costello even described Tony Abbott as an economic illiterate - now he and his government are showing this in spades.TBH, if the 'H' stands for honest, you obviously use Abbott's dictionary (the suppository of all wisdom eh?)...Just because Clive Palmer is using Tony Abbott, don't drag Bill Shorten in on it.  He's sitting back letting the sideshow unfold.  Meanwhile, Abbott continues to shoot himself in the foot, with or without Palmer.Labor's been around for well over a hundred years, I think it will take more than PUP to overthrow them.Good point matty.  Tony Abbott can't claim he has a 'carte blanche' mandate now, when all his policies now, scarcely resemble those he took to the election."Which segment of society caused the problem?"  The same ones who squeal like "stuck pigs" when things get tougher for them.  Little matter that the rest do it tough year in, year out.Hear! Hear! Whohasthefish.

When Tony Abbott said before the election he planned to return to the 'golden years of Howard', perhaps this was his misguided idea of doing that?Al, money is supposed to be spent on medical and education now, coupled with huge costs for security, mammoth costs for running 'Sovereign Borders' (even phony wars cost money you know).  

Not to mention that it seems your expectation is that each of these people would be on welfare.  Why is that?  The murdered man Reza Barati was an architect, just as an example.  Instead of bringing people in on 457 vizas, many could fill these vacancies.  More people create more work, put more money back into the economy.Janice, Abbott's not "just doing what Labor did in returning people to Sri Lanka"  - those people returned under Labor's watch opted to return when they weren't able to be classified as refugees.  These current people have not been properly assessed and besides, they left from India and it is reported that Sri Lanka is refusing to accept them.

You claim that "it doesn't look good encouraging people to attempt to come to Australia in boats, just for political purposes and trying to embarrass the current government".  By the tone of your comment, one could be forgiven for thinking you are trying to blame Labor for the whole sorry mess THIS government has created?

What of those unfortunate people now being held prisoner (the only way to put it) until THIS government tries to work out the best plan to ensure their claim of 'no boats in six months' isn't ruined.  That's what all this is about, it's the Abbott government who is playing the political games.If what you say is correct, then they should be returned to India, not Sri Lanka - the country from which they were seeking refuge!  In any case, Sri Lanka is refusing to take them back, in spite of Tony Abbott's earlier 'sweetener', gifting them 2 patrol boats.  

If he succeeds in changing their minds, we can only wonder what further 'enticements' he had to offer (compliments of the Aussie taxpayer)?Aussie Sutra, further to my earlier post, I can find no evidence to support your claim that these 153 asylum seekers had already been classified as refugees in India.  If that were the case why would Scott Morrison claim that they were 'processed at sea', which is controversial to say the least, if he could get off the hook by saying India had already done the processing?

It has always been my understanding that this was the reason they left India, because they were still waiting to be processed (and who knows what conditions they had to live in, when you see how India's poor fare).  One family has a three year-old daughter who was born in the Indian camp, which is evidence they have been waiting some considerable time.Well said.Campbell Newman is Qld's version of Tony Abbott.  Just like Tony Abbott, once elected, Newman set about breaking his pre-election promises.  Labor copped an absolute thrashing over their part-privatization of Qld Rail which saw the voters deserting them in droves, mainly due to an active campaign by the LNP decrying such a move. 

Now the hypocritical Newman has even bigger plans for privatization and he has waged an expensive campaign to promote it.  This does not sit well with those Labor voters who protested against the Bligh government for doing far less.  Nor does his promise to keep electricity prices down, when in the past year we have seen huge increases - and it has nothing to do with the Carbon 'Tax'.  

As I recall, Tony Abbott stood side by side with Campbell Newman in his state election campaign, scaring everyone on the dire impact on families that the Carbon 'Tax' would cause.  Now, we've seen Abbott inflicting his own pain on families with his unpopular Budget and Newman doing the same by allowing energy prices to increase way beyond any Carbon 'Tax' increase.

I also must point out that the claims written here that "hospital waiting lists are cleared" are only based on the information supplied by the government.  The true facts don't support that claim.A cantor is the person who leads the congregation in prayer in a Jewish religious service...So much coverage on the Sri Lankan boat people. There are thousands of refugees awaiting placement in safe countries, that  are unwilling to risk their's or their children's lives by trying to jump the queue. Please consider this angle instead of concentrating on these queue jumpers.
Zing, you say "The right to life is inalienable, meaning it can't be willingly surrendered."  

Why can't it be surrendered?  We were not given a choice in the beginning.  Our birth came about as the result of others' planning, impulsiveness or violence.  Surely, if we don't like the outcome, it is entirely our own business whether or not we wish to continue?You are placing a lot of belief in the UN Charter.  "The UN Charter says no one shall be subjected to torture or to cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment."

I'd say, with the exception of torture (and even that might be down the track if our government gets their way), those aspects are being played out right now for a boatload of asylum seekers/detainees, what of the UN Charter now?

This is no different from those who selectively quote the Bible to suit their argument...Well said Suzanne.  Having said that, I do think that Philip Nitschke failed in his duty of care, as a doctor and a human being, to have not at least have steered his client towards seeking counselling.  

The circumstances - the death of his wife, irrational thinking as to whether he was at fault, feelings of depression - are feelings most people would experience faced with the same circumstances.  Failing to suggest seeking help as a first option, was wrong.  

Of course, the man may really have been responsible for his wife's death and chose to end the guilt by taking his own life?Well Zing, there are terminally-ill people in hospitals all around Australia, having pain medications increased, while at the same time fluids and sustenance are being withheld.  This is a type of euthanasia, legal, but a barbaric one - taking days (some times many) for the person to die.  How is this in any way preferable to a peaceful, swift death, which euthanasia advocates are calling for?"Patronizing behaviour" is the only thing the LNP are really good at.  They run rings around Labor in that department, thank goodness, as it is nothing to be proud of.I couldn't help noticing the difference between the President in the Senate and the Speaker in the House of Reps.  Why, he even allows 'points of order', uses direction on 'relevance', both almost totally lacking with the blatantly biased Bronwyn Bishop.  (There is another 'b' word that could sit well in the alliteration too.)Thanks I just did, to refresh my memory - even more funny the second time around.  With this government, humour is a much-needed stress relief.Some voted because they fell for the fearmongering of Abbott &amp; Co - they were constantly in our face, spreading the spin, seldom, if ever, challenged by the media.  People fell for it because they know or care nothing about politics.  

Of course, they are now starting to realize their mistake - too late, of course, but Tony can hardly claim a mandate.  Especially when what he promised before the election is nothing like his plans since and the polls are pretty clearly indicating many have regretted their choice."What do you suppose think all these extra spin doctors employed by Abbott's government are doing?"

Costing taxpayers a lot of money.

Another broken promise (aka lie) "We will be an open and accountable government"...anyone heard from Scott Morrison lately?"It looked like they might have got something right when they broached the idea of Domestic Violence Intervention Orders being nationwide, but undermined that by ripping valuable funding away from necessary services."

Then when you have Abbott saying such 'gems' as "a bad boss is like a bad father or a bad husband, you find that he tends to do more good than harm"...another 'what tha' moment from our sexist leader - also does little for its success.In other words 'close ties with LNP'...Jan, my thoughts precisely.  THIS is the government we are stuck with now, lets scrutinize them as closely as the previous government  was.  We are still running under the same rules.  Labor is being put under the microscope and the LNP are acting like Opposition attack dogs, still escaping proper scrutiny by the media.Mick, I don't need the ABC to tell me I don't like Abbott - Tony Abbott himself has given me plenty of reason to form this opinion.

Don't blame the ABC for reporting it as it is.  In fact, because so few of the government MPs appear on their shows, they get off pretty lightly.  Tony Abbott especially dodges them, choosing only to go on LNP-friendly sites.  Gutless in the extreme.I agree Sascha, we must remember and adults must be aware, but must not in the process, become obsessive.  It's sad that men like Rolf Harris, have spoiled it for the rest, who are genuine in their affinity with kids. 

My two youngest sons performed on stage with Rolf Harris in my city (Qld), as part of a young choir group, backing him.  It was a first-time/one-off event, of which they were very proud to be part - especially as Rolf Harris was at the peak of his career then.  

My youngest son suffers a mental illness and this whole case has had a profound effect on him.  But he has gone very quiet since the verdict has come in.  No doubt his feelings of betrayal will manifest itself further down the track.

There are people who will not accept the verdict, seeing Rolf Harris as the victim instead, perhaps accused wrongly for financial reward.  I would suggest that the courts have got it right.  

Rolf Harris hired the best legal team that his money can buy - the same one that Oscar Pistorius has.  Each day, he has fronted court, holding hands with family members, wearing colour-coordinated clothing - as advised by his legal team - to give the impression of a decent, close-knit family, in order to help his case.  This in itself is a deceit, hardly necessary from someone who is innocent.

We can't even begin to imagine the impact on the victims - especially seeing him perform/receiving accolades over the years, making the hurt even worse.Once again, Tony Abbott is refusing to listen to the voice of the people.  He rushed with indecent haste (and taxpayers' money) to set up not one, but two, Royal Commissions, both of which were unnecessary witch hunts, to blacken Labor.

Even the Treasurer thinks we need a RC - why doesn't Abbott?  As it stands, we simply have the bank reviewing the bank - and when have banks not acted in their own best interests?Yes Pop, the deaths in the home insulation scheme were totally preventable.  Two of the deaths were as a result of the workers themselves not following the rules, and the other two were as a result of dodgy employers using untrained workers, to make a quick buck.  

Currently, the Qld government is running frequent ads - "before you work in ceilings, always turn the power off".  If only those installers had applied this simple rule, one that even I, as a non-electrician, always assumed was normal practice, three of those four workers would be still alive.  The other one died from dehydration - no government can legislate against ignorance.

How do you feel about the ICAC findings, where ratepayers were ripped off big-time, by a man who will no doubt return to our Parliament - or do you only see 'Labor corruption'?Unions come in different guises, as the LNP well know - they are supported by some of their own in the form of associations, federations, alliances etc...

While neither side of politics is handling the asylum seeker issue appropriately, it has to be said that this current government has taken matters to a whole new low.

It is THIS government which needs to be put under the spotlight currently - especially with their current silence over the latest 'arrivals', which they are pretending don't exist, as it will blemish their boast of 'no arrivals in six months'.

The stupid, oft-repeated claim - of 'we will not supply information to people smugglers' - goes unchallenged by most in the media.  In this current instance, reports are filtering through that the government is trying to do a deal with Sri Lanka to return these 'non-existent' asylum seekers back to their original tormenters.  

How can this possibly 'advantage' people smugglers (as the government claims) - I can only see it as a DISADVANTAGE to them, as it would surely be a further deterrence to asylum seekers not to come, thus doing the people smugglers out of some future business.  This can only be a plus for the government.  Why doesn't the media put that to them? 

The real reason Abbott &amp; Co are staying 'shtum' on this is they don't want the rest of the world seeing what a hypocritical, mean-spirited, evil-minded bunch they are.

Where is the United Nations in all this - surely they can't condone the actions of THIS current government.?Apart from lack of any evidence that "its adherants (sic) will want to alter Australian law to suit their Imams dictates", how do you feel about all the Catholics in Parliament, especially Abbott, who already let their religious beliefs influence how some laws are framed? Such things as abortion, stem cell research, euthanasia, gay marriage, are all influenced by religious beliefs.Yes and "our 'green' party" also wants to reward people even more, for increasing the population (PPL - Abbott style).Well rureal, all the more reason to have a decent climate change policy in place, which Direct Action - still not even near commencement - will not address.

Australia is no longer 'the land of milk and honey' since this government came to office, it's the 'haves' and the 'have-nots' - there's certainly no 'welfare carrot' as an inducement, as you imply.Graeski, I imagine Other John used the Daily Telegraph as his 'suppository of wisdom'...Denise also needs to know that mental illness can strike anyone at any time.  Stay healthy Denise, you never know what lies ahead.Denise, you say "...does this have to (sic) about every individual who wants a whine and sets about writing a sob story."

If that is in reference to Jock's comment, I must say you are one nasty individual.  It also reveals how wrong you are.  Too often governments (especially this one) run on a 'one size fits all' model, and unless individuals speak up to show how inappropriate this is, nothing can or will change for the better.  

Your claim of "I sympathize with everyone who has a disability but..." is your attempt at humour, I take it?Sadly, since Tony Abbott came to prominence, Australia has gone from being 'The Lucky Country' to 'The Selfish Country'.  Gone is the 'fair go', gone is the 'mates helping mates', for which we were renowned - it's been replaced by 'what's in it for me?' and 'I'm alright Jack'...Well said, ayjay.  With so many in the able-bodied work force competing for jobs, there is little chance of anyone with a disability ever being given preference.

Until attitudes are changed towards people with disabilities, especially that of employers, the latest plans by the government will serve no purpose, other than to make some money for them, by shifting people onto a lower payment rate.Yes Ann, not to mention being banned from places where white people went - including toilets!  The White House was no exception I believe, and some schools today still practise segregation...Would could we expect when people such as Tony Abbott described disability access to cinemas as "waffle".  No matter how hard he tries to hide it, his dismissive attitudes to people with disabilities manage to seep out every now and then.

In Tony's perfect world, he preferes 'high calibre' women to produce babies, perhaps ensuring we have an 'Aryan' nation?  Little wonder we have people with attitudes such as Zing, when we have a leader/government promoting such attitudes.sidlaw, there are plenty of opportunities to rort at the top and they've been well-embraced - so why not start there?  Reports are coming out that even this new 'deficit tax' which the Abbott government is introducing, to give the impression 'everyone is sharing the pain' (what a laugh), is very open to rorters.  Some of the biggest rorters are at the top level, as they have the wherewithal to find the loopholes.  

What punitive measures would you suggest for these rorters - or has your focus only been on DSP recipients?Charles, I agree.  Many see mental illness as some sort of 'cop out', that a 'good swift kick up the backside would fix'.  It is the 'hidden disability', the least accepted and the hardest to prove.  Anyone with a mental illness who is on a DSP, has not been given that support lightly - the testing is rigorous.

Might I also say, as a fellow-carer, the current rhetoric coming from Kevin Andrews is causing unnecessary distress to genuine recipients, who are difficult to convince they are not going to be punished.  

Andrews was a disgrace in the Howard government as Minister for Immigration, now he's determined to repeat the process as Minister for Social Services in this one.I think the brouhaha surrounding this is pretty over the top.  I could understand the punishment, if the act was done to someone else, but it wasn't.  And in the days before 'selfies' or whatever category this comes under, no one would be any the wiser what went on amongst our earlier sports professionals.If someone is drunk enough to 'urinate in his own mouth', I doubt his level of cognitive thinking would lend itself to considering he could be sacked, or even that he would be exposed(no pun intended) to such embarrassment by a team'mate'.  

As long as unlimited alcohol is provided/condoned by sports clubs at celebratory functions - the players also will continue to follow that example, in their social lives.  Healthy lifestyles should be promoted, not seeing who can drink each other under the table, to the point of stupidity/insensibility.  Footballers seem to be the worst offenders.Kicking a guy when he's down, is not the way to get him back on his feet.  It seems Todd Carney has some issues which he needs to deal with, but 'mates' taking advantage of his failings, combined with outrage from the public, is not going to help him in any way.The definition of 'professional' really has no bearing on my comment Dave.  I could just as easily have ended my comment with "sports people" rather than "sports professionals".

Until sportspeople no longer over-indulge in alcohol, don't be surprised when these stupid incidents occur.  I would have thought the sheer embarrassment suffered, would be punishment enough, perhaps some term of suspension as well.  

Actually, the person who put the picture out there in the public domain, should also cop something - he also has 'let the team down' - as no one would have been any the wiser otherwise.  

But sports clubs themselves have a lot to answer for - at every celebratory function they have, copious amounts of alcohol is served, as a reward for effort.  Hardly good health practice for ANY sportsperson, be they professional or amateur.Spot on critta.  Also for those so concerned about Carney letting down his 'corporate sponsors':

As I recall, a certain former coach of the Wallabies team had his own 'toilet moment' - caught out 'flag waving' (to a cop no less) in a public toilet.  With no photographic evidence and a good lawyer, he escaped penalty.

He later went on to vilify a Prime Minister in THE most degrading and disgusting way.  Today he stills enjoys his 'corporate sponsorship' and the endorsement of our current PM.  

So again I say, there has been a lot of brouhaha surrounding this incident.The clubs themselves need to be the leaders.  As long as they run events allowing their players to drink vast quantities of alcohol, with their blessing, they are failing their players."It's a business"

That's part of the problem frangipani, it's run like a business and players are viewed as commodities.  Responsibility cuts both ways and players have to been seen as real live people, with all their frailties.I agree Wildfire.  This point is being lost here.  Too many here are concerned about the money - "corporate sponsorship".  Well, if they are prepared to outlay such amounts, they should also be prepared to oversee the wellbeing of players both on and off the field.  

It seems obvious from reports of his past behaviours that Todd Carney has some problems, why not help him sort them out, rather than let them escalate, then dump him?  

This whole affair has been blown out of all proportion.  Perhaps we should consider some of the behaviours which have been revealed about some in our Defence Forces.  Some of these offences occurred in the past (far worse offences than Carney's indiscretion).  Not only did these offenders escape notice or penalty, it is worse - the offenders went on to gain promotion and be held in high esteem.Most employers wouldn't have a clue what their employees did in the toilet, in their own time, nor would it be any of their business.  

Maybe more attention should be paid to the lack of morals of the 'mate' who thought it would be a good idea to make the photo public - he might even have put up the idea in the first place.  If Todd Carney were to confirm that, he'd be further castigated as a 'dobber'.Steven, I totally agree with the second part of your comment.  I've seen that sort of behaviour from so-called 'mates' at a more personal level - even without the involvement of alcohol.  There seems to be a certain element who enjoy getting a laugh out of 'setting up' someone who is not quite as savvy as they are.That could include how much the removal of Carbon Pricing will actually save householders.  Tony Abbott shouts across the Chamber, that it's removal will save family households $550 per year, when a person on ABC from an energy authority, claimed it was between $120 and $150 per household.  

With Tony it's always been about the cost, not about the benefits.Alfie, how naive you are.  Two of our best stage artists putting on a show for the cameras - you claim this as a success?

No wonder you support the LNP...Meant to add, thanks for a well-written article Darrin.That's when we get our 'square-up' - by voting him out!Clive Palmer has substantial coal interests - that is a fact.Correct damon.  Clive's bluster hides a raft of troubles when it comes to his business interests.  He's not an unlikeable character, but then again, most con men could be described in that way.Sound advice Chris L, trouble is, those who resort to/rely on spin - such as Abbott and Palmer - seem to get all the exposure, leaving the uninformed with only one side of the story.Don't forget Hockey champing at the bit.  Just watch Question Time and see the lack of support for Tony Abbott, from Julie Bishop/ Christopher Pyne when he gets answers a question.  Their blatant disinterest, is so obvious (well, at least to those of us without blinkers on).Andrew I don't agree that the ALP no longer represents the values under which it was formed.  My great-grandfather played a pivotal role in the formation of the ALP (so history records).  He was the Secretary of the Shearers' Union in Qld, at the time of the 'Great Shearers' Strike' and went to jail for the cause.  Subsequent events in which he played a part, saw the birth of the Australian Labor Party, which has survived for over one hundred years.  

Since that time, a lot of water has run under the bridge, times have changed exponentially, it is essential that Labor move along with those changes, but underneath it all, Labor fights for fair, for the worker, for the underdog, just as in those early days of its formation.Well said v, my responses to both Andrew and Rabbithole were made pretty much on the run, yours says it so much more comprehensively.  Cheers...Joe, I doubt Tony Abbott will be laughing - he hasn't had much to laugh about, of late, evidenced by his behaviour in Question Time.  Tony uses the tactic 'attack is the best form of defence' - and he's attacking in spades currently, because he has NO defence for his highly unpopular Budget. 

 As for the 'consummate con' - I think that title's already been conferred on Tony."Abbott flat out lied to get elected.  He should not be PM."

Couldn't agree more - and what's worse, not only is he still lying, he's lying about lying!

He's also gutless - if anyone watched Question Time today, Jenny Macklin was 'sent from the Chamber', so in her absence, in one of his vitriolic tirades, Abbott claimed she endorsed the GP co-payment in the Hawke government, even though this matter was recently dealt with, and he knew his claim was untrue.  

Because of the extreme bias of the Speaker, and his sneaky, gutless ways, he took the opportunity of Ms Macklin's absence to once again promote the lie - and got away with it.  

Abbott's election win was Australia's loss...Well, if some decent policies are put forward, Labor will back the government.  Little evidence of any good policies to date.Rabbithole, do you live in Clive's electorate do you, to know that he is "doing nothing for his constituents so far"?

I have a new LNP representative in my electorate, and I know she's done nothing for my electorate so far, other than ask a few 'Dorothy Dixers' in QT.  This seat is tipped to go back to Labor next election, that's the only reason she gets to be asking questions.

In fact, in an article on Independent Australia, Bob Ellis listed a number of seats tipped to be lost by the government if an election was held now.  I decided to keep a check - by a strange 'coincidence', yesterday in QT, the majority of 'Dorothy Dixers' came from members whose seats are on this very list.

The government's trying every trick in the book to get on side with the electorate, even down to this level.  I suggest they spend more of their energies on producing some decent policies, instead of dreaming up their latest con."If Mr Abbott had been PM during the GFC he would have gone even harder on austerity."

Abbott is out of his depth when it comes to our economy - he finds it all boring and he is quoted by members of his own side as having rash ideas with no thought to the cost.  His Paid Parental Leave Scheme is a prime example.  

Both he and Hockey (and every LNP member who opens their mouth to the media) claim we have a 'budget emergency', 'debt and deficit as far as the eye can see' (how I'm sick of that one), so why, in those circumstances (if that were even remotely true) do you change something that 'just ain't broke' - Labor's PPL - for a more expensive model?  

Labor was already getting back on track, with reduced government spending, evidenced in figures released just following the election - but this current government have resorted to their old modus operandi of "Tell a lie big enough and often enough, and it will be believed", still claiming 'budget emergency'.

The Coalition lied their way into government, with a raft of vote-buying promises, which they have since broken, their 'Big Lie' theory just isn't going to work any more - people are waking up to the fact they were treated like 'mugs'.After nearly ten months in government, Abbott still hasn't moved on from his slogans and insults.  He only prepared to WIN the election, not for the task of actually running a government.  He's totally clueless - but how much damage will he inflict, before he gets voted out (or deposed)?
Stobes, just as with Tony's PPL, where he wants 'women of calibre' to have babies, he wants 'kids of calibre' to fill our universities - those whose Mummies and Daddies will foot the bill.

As for the rest, they'll be out on the street, unemployed, with no funds to live on for six months.  When Joe Hockey said "the age of entitlement is over", he only meant for the families, the poor and the disadvantaged.  It will be 'business as usual' at the top...

"Try to have some foresight...for the good of the country in the future...for our kids....please!"

That's the very reason why Tony Abbott has to drop his inefficient (and still unclear) Direct (In)Action Plan to 'address' climate change - "for the good of the country in the future...for our kids" and implement an ETS.  

He's just playing political games with our futures.  He doesn't give a fig about climate change, it's just that 'removing the Carbon 'Tax'' is his BIG promise - he knows if he walks away from this one (like he has with his health, education, pension promises) he's finished, after constantly painting Julia Gillard as a liar on the issue.
John "necessary restructuring" - the only thing that is being restructured since this government came to office, is the TRUTH.Sorry Brian Francis, but that's wishful thinking - but I guess that's all LNP supporters have got to cling to at the moment!Sydney Bob, I think it's also interesting to note that Tony Abbott finally announced drought funding for those Qld /NSW farmers just two days before the Griffith by-election - no doubt to improve the LNP's standing, which was slipping both federally and state-wise.

That funding still has not been provided."Shorten might be polling well now"

Actually Shorten IS polling well now and Tony Abbott knows it - thus the concerted effort by all the LNP commentators, such as Chris Berg, to play it down.   Just because Bill Shorten's not acting like the 'Junkyard Dog' like Abbott did, does not mean he's not cutting through with the electorate (who, incidentally, are fed up with Abbott's type of approach).

To date, Tony Abbott is still acting like the Junkyard Dog, trying to sell the story that his cuts to pensioners, health and education aren't broken election promises."I would rather Abbott overdo it on national security than underdo it.  We already have one party that underdoes it.  Having two would be fatal."

Fatal?  In what way?  I don't recall any war or terrorist act being committed on our home ground.  The only atrocity involving Australia I can think of is the recent instance, where an Australian father had his son photographed holding a severed head, while overseas.  

All I see is that after all the 'protect our borders' hype that this government bleats on about, all the expense in 'tightening our borders', this person and his family were able to slip through the net via something as simple as using his brother's passport.

At the end of the day it counts for nothing other than a fearmongering tactic in order to look good for potential voters.I'm with Senator Lines on this one.  Abbott has been itching to get us involved in conflict somehow or other, since he came to office.  His plan to duplicate the Howard years obviously included the "War on Terror".  Not even one year in office and I've had enough of this government.W/loo - "The left never stop exhibiting greed for things that are beyond their achievable attainment."

Such as driving a car or going for a drive eh?  Just ask Joe Hockey, our well-heeled Treasurer - or even better, perhaps Arthur Sinodinos might have some memory recall and enlighten us as to all the good deeds he was going to put his $20 million towards, which he was hoping to score.

The self-delusion of the LNP and their supporters never ceases to astound me!Gregory, the "less well off" constitute the majority of Australians (of which I am one), who will bear the brunt of this government's mean-spirited budget.  Your faux need for clarification does little to increase your credibility, it just provides evidence of the conservative practice of using distraction to avoid the truth.  

Unfortunately that's how this inept government got voted in, in the first place.  Those less-blinkered are waking up to their mistake.  Perhaps though, you are in the category of "the very well off"?  In which case, you will understandably be supportive of this governmentS O, it's hard to tell that the LNP aren't still in opposition - they are still behaving like the junkyard dogs they were then - using distraction politics to hide the fact they've got nothing going for them.Peter Reith had a weekly column when Labor was in, now he doesn't bother.  Mission accomplished apparently.  Or, is it a case of the rats deserting the sinking ship?Ha ha.. Maybe his old typewriter has packed it in?Graham H, if you've perceived more criticism towards the LNP, have you considered that's because they've provided so much ammunition to work with?If this is Abbott's best. I dread to see his worst!Jerry Attrick, take heart in the fact that the large number of "Abbott apologists" commenting here, are testament to the accuracy of Jonathon's article.  This is the conservative modus operandi - post en masse to try to drown out the rational posters and the voice of reason.  The more they feel threatened and exposed as failures, the more they post.

The same tactics are applied in Question Time in Parliament.  The government still acts like an Opposition, using spin to denounce Labor, all the while avoiding any semblance of an answer, with complete impunity from their partisan Speaker Bishop and with no chance of any comeback allowed to the Labor Opposition.Of course John, you forgot to mention those comments by Wayne Hanson were made back in 2011, when the Abbott fearmongering campaign was in full swing.  This is just proof of the success of Abbott's lying - hardly any ringing endorsement for a person who now sits in the top job, is it?  

Who wants their CV to read "excellent lying skills"?Actually John, you are correct - Wayne Hanson did use it a week before Tony Abbott picked it up and ran with it.  Just goes to show the dangers of not having an original thought and/or rushing in half-cocked.  It was subsequently to come back and bite Abbott on the proverbial.

Just like now.  Earlier this year, he rushed to announce the locating of MH370, wrongly getting the hopes up of waiting relatives - it's still not been located.  More recently, with the MH17 crash, he claimed we would "Bring Them Home", once again a claim made too soon, once again wrongly getting the hopes up of waiting relatives.  In both cases, he has extravagantly committed copious amounts of taxpayer funds to bignote himself on the world stage.

After four years (at least), it seems like Tony Abbott still hasn't learnt it's best not to rush into things, before making rash commitments.  He must be a slow learner, which is not a good trait for a PM.Peter, "I will not be voting labor again" - have you ever?  I think what would be a better idea is if the government purged itself of the leftovers from the Howard years, still stuck in the fifties.

The image of Warren Truss sitting on the front bench falling asleep in QT is not very enlightening, given he's deputy PM and given it's a frequent occurrence.I agree Malcolm "give the Coalition government the flick".  Tony Abbott seems unable to let go to an idea , even when it's been denounced by his own side (think PPL).  

Of course, he probably painted such a black picture of Julia Gillard over his misrepresentation of her Carbon 'Tax' comment, he now can't be seen to back down on anything of his own.Sure, if you say so Realist.  From the anonymous comfort of a pseudonym - even posting under multiple names - anyone can claim anything.  

As I recall, some of your posts don't exactly bear out your claim of committing your time to helping those less fortunate than you are...Filz, if you had, you would have been a 'shoe in' - couldn't resist...Yes Johnnoh, if the government hadn't been so intent on their witch hunts to paint Labor in the blackest light possible, (Home Insulation Scheme and Union RCs), the money wasted could have been much better invested in the Child Abuse RC.Well said frangipani, and never is this more in evidence than with the government we have at the moment.George Pell has now joined all those other priests whom the Catholic Church promoted and/or moved on to avoid scrutiny.  His 'handling' of the abuses committed by those who had taken vows of celibacy and to 'serve God' is no better than the perpetrators, in my opinion.  

It's high time the churches paid taxes, after all, they are only run as businesses - and pretty lucrative ones at that..  The government's looking for funds, well there's some for a start.PhilB it's not so much that "the opinions of the cross bench and ALP matter more than that of the AMA", it's the fact that the barely-reduced co-payment will be going to the doctors themselves.  This is of no advantage to the government's coffers...Or the government could start telling the truth for a change.  Labor had already acknowledged the need for fiscal responsibility and cut government spending considerably.  They also acknowledged the need to increase revenue and were introducing measures to do so, which this government has now scrapped.  This for a start, refutes the government's claims of 'budget emergency'.

Neither is it borne out in their introduction of a GP co-payment, when the revenue from that would not go to Medicare as one would expect, but to a future medical research fund.  This is not the act of a government facing a 'budget emergency' and it is just as irresponsible as the deluxe PPL.

Even in trying to sell the GP co-payment, they had to resort to lies.  Their claims that Labor introduced a 'co-payment' for the PBS is totally false.  It is not a 'co-payment' in which a person goes to the pharmacist, pays a set fee to a pharmacist to get service.  It is a DISCOUNT on approved scripted medications, which would otherwise cost more, often much more.  Many people have multiple scripts and pay for each one at the discounted price.  

In no way does it resemble the GP co-payment and it's time this government was pulled up on making that false claim.Regarding Scott Morrison (apologies for going off-topic):

Scott Morrison's sarcastic and arrogant rhetoric was never more in evidence than at the inquiry which was held last week.  His total disrespect towards Professor Gillian Triggs from the HRC was palpable, yet it is currently Professor Triggs who is being taken to task for HER attitude - even here on Insiders yesterday, where one would have hoped for some balanced comment.  

Of course, we could expect nothing more from Nikki Savva, but this is reminiscent of the reaction by the Australian media regarding the 'misogyny speech' (on a lesser scale).  

My only critique of Gillian Triggs was that she was too soft on Scott Morrison - she should have curtailed some of his time-wasting diversions down a path well-trodden, by requiring a 'yes' or 'no' answer.  Also, she should have cut him in his tracks, when he became the questioner rather than the one answering.   

Yes, I do agree that Prof Griggs would have been "totally aghast" at Morrison's bullying - which would have been very unsettling for her.

My main beef though was the fact that she was the one who has been singled out for criticism - so unfairly - when this so-and-so continues unscathed.  This man (for want of a better word) needs to be halted in his tracks.Yes, I've just remembered the "6 cents a day" ad for the ABC - by my maths, this comes to less than $22.  So debunker's claim of $49 is incorrect.  This has been another 'fact check'!!Debimler, if that's correct, then that's a small price to pay for 24/7 entertainment/information, all year round.  Seven visits to the GP in total, would be over and done with in probably about an hour, the way GPs push patients through at the rate of knots.  ABC is by far and away the better value (entertainment can be therapeutic).The Howard government was so 'on the nose' by 2007, no help was needed to get rid of them.  However, once Rudd threatened Murdoch's Foxtel enterprise with his plans to introduce the NBN, the Murdoch media set about to bring him down.  That campaign continued up until the 2013 election.  

Of course, the Murdoch press sways voters.  Tony Abbott campaigned on a litany of lies and the Murdoch media obligingly presented them as fact.  So many people fell for it, but the more intelligent are realizing their error now.  They've been duped and the country is the poorer.Exactly, people who 'choose to read newspapers' have little choice but to read Murdoch-owned papers - they are far and away in the majority.Good points geggyg, especially raising the fact that we had natural disasters to the level never been seen before in Australia - often overlooked - which came at incredible cost.The accolades which Howard and Costello received as being great economic managers are highly exaggerated - the two most difficult times for our family financially, have been during the Fraser years, when John Howard was Treasurer and during the Howard years when he was PM.  Speaks volumes.Gary, this is exactly what the Newman government did when it came to office in Qld.  Several of the successful programs they ditched had to be reinstated, either as a result of public outcry  and/or the realization the decision was ill-conceived.

In spite of Labor's near-annihilation at the last state election, they have now improved their standing consistently in the polls to be a threat to the Newman government, which is indicative of the level of dissatisfaction with this government.  I look forward to a replication of this outcome federally, come the next election in two years' time.Joe Blow "Labor's lie that the PPL is funded by taxpayers is allowed to go on and on.  No journo ever says 'No that's not correct is it Mr Shorten .....'"  

To begin with, isn't that exactly what happened with Carbon Pricing?  No one EVER challenged the lie which Tony Abbott used so successfully to his advantage.  

But that aside, it is not a lie that taxpayers will be funding the PPL.  They will not bear the full cost, but from what vague  details (like all LNP policies) so far released, it has been confirmed that the taxes from businesses will fall far short of the amount required to run the scheme.  And if you think for one minute that we won't also be bearing the brunt of price rises as a result of those businesses' increased tax, you are deluding yourself.  For us, it will be a double whammy.  

I raised my three children without any PPL, I would have been more than happy with Labor's current scheme, if it had been in place then.  'If it ain't broke, don't fix it'.How fortunate for Tony Abbott that his remarks about Scotland and Joe Hockey's supercilious remarks about lower incomers' driving habits, have been totally eclipsed by Clive Palmer's 'spray' on Q&amp;A.

In spite of all the condemnation of Clive's remarks and in spite of the statements he made on Monday night - "There will be no co-payment, no changes to education establishments, no deregulation of universities"  Tony Abbott is today stating the he is quite sure he will get the co-operation of the crossbenchers to get these measures passed.  Does he know something we don't?  

Was Clive's outburst actually timed as a distraction to favour the government - after all, a leopard can't change its spots and Clive is a former member of/prolific donor to the LNP.  I put nothing past any of the of the LNP (or Clive Palmer) these days, as to the depths of their scheming.Abbott/"great negotiator" = oxymoron.

"Repairing the Indonesian relationship which Labor buggered up" - oh, how you make me laugh!  SBY made it perfectly clear that it was Abbott's handling of the matter (made worse by refusing to apologize) that caused the rift, not the actual spying - which would not have been limited only to the years of Labor BTW.  Currently, Australia has been put on a 'good behaviour bond' currently.

As far as conspiracies go, one only has to look at the James Ashby beat-up and their promotion of Kathy Jackson as a 'brave and courageous whistleblower' (LOL) so as to frame Craig Thomson, both in their quests to bring down the Gillard government, I'd say they are pretty adept at it.Albo, further to my earlier post, you say Tony Abbott sorted out the wimps of Europe and US over the Malaysian airline disasters WT? - I would say what he has done is spent a lot of taxpayer money in exercises of 'bignoting', at a time when he is claiming we are in 'financial crisis'.  

First, he set about to self-promote in WA before their Senate election re-run, in a fruitless search for MH370 (still not found).  Then it was the MH17, were he tried to take over by supplying over-the-top numbers of AFP and Defence personnel (who sat twiddling their thumbs for the greater part), but was put back in his box when the Dutch took over the show.  

During that time he managed to get Russia off-side, which will now impact on our dairy farmers to a greater degree than the live-export trade suffered.  Remember the hue and cry which ensued when the Gillard government stalled the live cattle export trade as a result of extreme cruelty to the cattle?  Yet now, there's hardly a murmur regarding the damage caused to dairy farmers, as a result of Abbott being unable to employ some verbal diplomacy.

He is an embarrassment.Sorry John, the spying disclosure attributed to the Rudd government, was but a random disclosure by Edward Snowdon, not proof that it occurred ONLY during that government's term.  No one with any amount of intelligence (no pun intended) has assumed that.

The initial response from SBY or Marty was nothing like you describe.  No doubt some compensation has been made by Australia since, (we will never be told, as this government runs under a veil of secrecy) in order to get Indonesia back on side.Clete, I live in Qld and I'm perfectly aware of the rise and rise of Clive Palmer (you left out, he was also a media adviser to Joh Bjelke-Petersen, which speaks volumes).  His interest in Qld politics has now been overshadowed by his foray into federal politics.  

I'm also aware of how inconsistent and erratic he is - just look at his attitude towards climate change.  He performs to an audience and he always makes sure to go with what's best for Clive in the end.  

You are defending the indefensible."... could the Coalition be at risk of losing its reputation as the better economic managers?"

I think that (self-proclaimed) reputation is already lost.  Several measures they are trying to introduce - such as the punishing measures for 'youth' unemployed - will not save money.  In fact, the required monitoring of this unrealistic scheme will cost far more than any savings which might be found.  

Add to that, down the track, the resultant complications from this scheme - increased homelessness, risk of increased youth suicides (rising again to the levels of the days of Howard)/ mental health costs/ the inevitable pressures on those families forced to support their unemployed offspring, shows how shortsighted this government is.  

There will be no benefits for introducing this scheme, just a determination to project a tough guy image - so loved by so many of those who are currently ru(i)nning this country. 

For the record, I don't have any family member who will be disadvantaged by this scheme, I am just so incensed by this draconian measure, I have to speak out...Gd, actually it was Howard who increased the numbers of those on a disability payment, to make his unemployment figures look better.  Labor started programs to assist people with disabilities into finding work - when they reasonably could - not the 'one size fits all' policy that this clueless government is trying to introduce.  

The figures you are parroting, are no doubt quoting some shock jock or other - the 'suppositories of wisdom', who seem to act as government advisers.

"Twiggy" Forrest's concerns would be best directed to cleaning up his own backyard and see what's going so wrong that too many FIFO workers are taking their own lives, rather than trying to control people's spending habits.It seems the government ministers are getting their roles mixed.  Julie Bishop was out doing the Treasurer's job talking about the Budget and now Joe Hockey's donned the high-vis jacket and doing the job of Andrew Robb, talking up exports.They certainly are still stuck in Opposition mode - because they don't have any worthwhile plans of their own.  Their greatest focus has been to remove any traces of the Gillard government's reforms and trash Labor's name with every comment they make.  Childish in the extreme.

It is no doubt a festering sore with Tony Abbott that he was denied his opportunity to challenge Julia Gillard for the 2013 election (Kevin Rudd robbed him of that chance).  He had never forgiven her for being the Independents' choice in 2010, so this is his way of retribution - he really is a sore loser.Harry, 'Tories' is commonly used to describe the Liberals here in Australia.  You really are nitpicking.  Besides, "Lefty Luvvies" is a common term frequently directed at Labor voters - which I'm sure you are most comfortable with.Harry, of course the authors here would not use that childish term, I was referring to the many pro-LNP posters here, who commonly use the term.  Cheers...What Abbott has claimed on his 'charity' stunts (aka election campaigning) for just one night, is more than someone on Newstart gets for a week to live on.  Now, with their plans for the young unemployed, it will be way more than they have to live on for six months!

I note his most recent bike ride was reduced, as a result of his trip to the Netherlands (and beyond), on the flimsy excuse of offering 'thanks' for their handling of the MH17 event (Julie Bishop and Peter Cosgrove had already attended to that).  

It really was just a convenient (and costly) exercise, designed to score some much-needed points, hoping to appear 'statesman-like', following on from the favourable press he received from his last overseas junket.If we had better mental health services in our country, this might have been avoided from the outset.  However, that aside, police officers should all be trained to deal with people suffering mental illnesses - as well as ambos and mainstream hospital staff.  Untrained officers should never be sent on a mental-health call-out.

I know from personal experience with a family member, that many untrained officers, emergency personnel and hospital staff often have their own preconceived ideas (one could say 'attitude') of dealing with the mentally ill and it seldom leads to good outcomes."Likewise, there is no information about the presence or otherwise of 'mental illness'...." 

I take it you didn't read where the author said that the person in question had a long history of depression?  It was also stated that he believed his action would cause his death (the leaking gas cylinder).  The fact that it wouldn't have succeeded, wasn't the issue - it was the consequences which were in question and it was ruled they were 'unintended consequences'...And to hear Julie Bishop tell it, at her earlier meeting with Putin (sent in to smooth the waters for Tony), she secured a guarantee of co-operation with the MH17 search site.  

In reality, she cornered him at a meeting, he would have politely given some reassurances of co-operation and would have continued with the status quo.  

It's called diplomacy, something politicians practice all the time.  It's time the Abbott government learned the art of it.Phillip, tell me you threw that in for some light comedy relief?  Ha ha ha - thanks, I needed the laugh....Abbott concentrated all his energies on bringing down Labor (by dirty deeds AND foul), in his obsession for the top job.  Since coming to office, it is painfully clear he is totally unsuitable/incapable of holding such a position.  

Unfortunately for Australia though, he is dragging us down to a level from which it will be hard to recover.  Abbott has become an embarrassment and I'm sure Vladimir Putin (portrayed as one of Abbott's "baddies") is rather bemused by the immature posturing of the Australian leader.

Filz, why would we want the Opposition replicating Abbott's stance which he took in Opposition?  Do you see how badly he is doing?  The Opposition is saying "No" where it counts, so your comment simply doesn't make sense.That's the fear tactic coming in to play once again "They'd leave in droves".  No, they'd just pay their due, like those who don't use the advantage of legal loopholes.Copper is also expensive to maintain - any Telstra maintenance worker can tell us that.  Just like everything the LNP government does, its a quick fix, second-rate, which will cost far more in the long-term.  

Incidentally that same analogy could be applied to Abbott!!Initially, but Tony soon picked it up himself and ran with it.  I watch Question Time in Parliament, so I KNOW he said it...It would appear that 'Superman' Tony has been exposed to Kryptonite - his powers are weakening further.  Not only has Vladimir yawned at his 'shirtfronting' threat, but now great news - Climate Change will be on the agenda for G20.  

Yee-hah (or, as Tony would say "Yee-how"!)...Especially as Tony is now saying "It IS a bit unusual to see this type of presence by the Russians".  Earlier today, Julie Bishop brushed it aside, saying "There's nothing unremarkable".  Why don't they co-ordinate their stories before fronting the media?  

I think Julie is scoring points at Abbott's expense...At least it's giving Labor a break, for the first time in years.A bit off-topic, there are 6,000 extra police officers deployed to Brisbane for G20, sourced from forces around the country.  It would be interesting to see if the crime rate increases elsewhere.Joe, so RT is Russia's version of the Murdoch press?The point is gbe, that unless Tony relinquished his British citizenship PRIOR to entering Parliament, he is in breach of the Rules - in other words, the position he holds is not legitimate.  To date, efforts by those seeking to get the facts have been thwarted at every turn - including personal intervention by Peta Credlin.  

Information confirms Julia Gillard did the right thing, if Tony Abbott has also done the right thing, why have such efforts been taken to conceal the facts?Tony Abbott already let Julie Bishop do some heavy lifting, when she 'fronted' Vladimir Putin recently, smoothing the way for Tony.  Isn't that what Tony does, get 'the womenfolk' to clear up his mess - that's their role?

Interestingly, there is later footage when Abbott and Putin were seated alongside each other.  The gutless Abbott's chair is almost touching the person's at the other side, in an effort to put as much space between him and Putin.  

Remember how he had to grovel to Malaysia following the election, following the vitriolic things he had to say beforehand?  Seems like Tony doesn't learn by his mistakes - very immature.  

I like to think of this seating arrangement as Karma, in return for the Gillard/Rudd seating arrangement at Gough Whitlam's Memorial the other day.You say there is so much about the Coalition government that you find "very disappointing" gbe, so how about sharing them with us?  You've avoided doing that to date.  Offering hypotheticals about Labor is meaningless, it's this current government who is responsible now.Lazarus, I wonder how Joe's going to spin THAT as all Labor's fault?
Yes FG, I for one, don't "hate Abbott".  

But I DO dislike him, I distrust him, I'm embarrassed by him, I despair for Australia because of him.  Hardly a ringing endorsement and one which is shared by more people than not, apparently.JAL, you paint a picture through LNP blinkers.  Julie Bishop CORNERED Putin, it was not an organized meeting.  Of course, Putin "reassured Bishop that he was helping", just as he will with Abbott, if the two actually meet.  It's called diplomacy - something Tony knows little to nothing about.  

But there is NO guarantee of any change to the status quo - politicians say one thing and do another - our current government is a classic example.

It all boils down to the fact that Tony Abbott made yet another stupid comment, he tried to deny it the following day, then tasked his Foreign Minister to water down the situation, in the hopes he'd escape too much flak.  

It's all very immature stuff and gutless to boot....Yes Gg, regarding MH17, Tony Abbott tried to take charge in the beginning with tough talk to Russia.  Bignoting, he over-extended personnel (apparently money was no object, in spite of the "Budget Emergency") without even being able to access the crash site.  Then the Dutch took the reins, joined by Malaysia - and Australia has become but a minor player.

Abbott sees Australia's importance in the greater scheme of things as much greater than is actually the case.Helvi, my childhood was spent in a similar vein to yours - plenty of exercise (no tv/computers), no junk foods, soft drink was a rare treat, grew much of our own fruit and veg.  Didn't stop me from being overweight though.

Now, I have a son from my first marriage (which ended when he was six months old) and two sons from my second (current) marriage.  My eldest has struggled all his life with his weight.  That's in spite of the fact, I ensured a healthy diet and he played more sport (no computers), walked/cycled more (as we didn't have a car) and rarely had take away (couldn't afford it) than his younger brothers, who both grew up 'slim as reeds'.

Too many people pass judgement, with a 'one size fits all' solution.  Unfortunately, that not how it works.Well put drt33th.  I hope it sinks in with those who are so quick to pass judgement, without having any real personal knowledge.Hear!  Hear! Ray.  I would also venture to say the 'shirtfront' issue would still be on the agenda, if Tony Abbott hadn't relied on Julie Bishop's softening the blow, when she met recently with Vladimir.  

I recall also, some time before the election, Tony Abbott gave Julie Bishop a virtual slap in the face when he described Peta Credlin as his "de facto deputy" (Julie Bishop was Deputy Leader of the Opposition at the time), even though Julie fiercely went into bat for him regarding the constant misogyny claims.  

Her 'taking one for the boss' - taking the heat off the 'shirtfront' threat, is hardly any evidence of her 'being her own woman'.   




























As well you would know aGuy, the "Ditch the Witch" comment was just the tip of the iceberg.  Julia couldn't set foot anywhere without being reported in the negative.  The media were always waiting for the 'gotcha' moment, she was relentlessly pursued and faulted on every aspect of her physical being.

Bob Ellis - supposedly a Labor supporter - had constant articles on The Drum about Julia Gillard, denigrating her at every opportunity.  Then the disgraceful Pickering cartoons, the Jones, Bolt comments - it was never ending.  

In actual fact, Julia Gillard went on to absolutely shine on the world stage, (eclipsing Julie Bishop's performance), even though she had said in the beginning Foreign Affairs was not 'her forte'.  

Of course, internationally she received much acclaim for this, but the folks at home couldn't see through the media spin, choosing only to rehash her initial comment.

Julie Bishop has not been subjected to any of that - other than the 'death stare' which she herself has encouraged.  
Roger, not sure if you are aware, but this is an opinion piece, not the views of the ABC.  Just as they publish opinion pieces by former Howard advisers and government MPs, or members of the right-wing IPA.  It's called balance, something you appear to lack."The voters were sheeple who actually believed what the Murdoch press told them."

Just as today.  The only reason the conservatives are suffering sour grapes is they can't hold up any shining Liberal examples whom they can revere (other than "Pig Iron" Bob).  

Even Malcolm Fraser can no longer support the Liberal Party as it is today - it would be unrecognizable to Bob Menzies.I have never heard that 'comment'.  Where did you source it - in the Murdoch press - that suppository of all wisdom?Mathias Cormann is on Kitchen Cabinet tomorrow night Albo.  Stop exaggerating.

I would suggest that Kevin Rudd most resembles Tony Abbott.  Both megalomaniacs, who can't accept defeat - especially by a woman.  Both resort to dirty tricks to get what they want.  

But once again you choose to exaggerate - Kevin Rudd received applause on arrival - he just didn't get the resounding much-deserved standing ovation which Julia Gillard received.Speaking as a taxpayer, I consider it money well spent.  So apparently, do many of those now sitting on the government benches, who also received THEIR university education, courtesy of Gough Whitlam and his government.Absolutely, Crow - it's a long-term investment, which governments should be willing to commit to.Don't worry Todd - no Labor supporters will put themselves at risk of being assaulted, the chances of that happening will be on a par with your voting for ALP or the Greens (there is no 'coalition').Well said AT.  Considering that Tony Abbott paid tribute to Gough Whitlam in Parliament just recently, with a fine speech, when soon after it was revealed that in 2011, in a criticism of the Gillard government, Abbott stood before a gathering of Party faithfuls to declare "Some say that this is the worst government since Whitlam.  But that is very unfair to Whitlam, who was UTTERLY INCOMPETENT".

Hypocrites deserved to be booed.  It wouldn't have helped either, that the PM's Department got it so wrong with the seating arrangements (out of spite or sheer incompetence?).  

True Believers who had travelled from all over the country, who had acceptance emails to say they were allocated seats inside, were forced to remain outside, including a broken-hearted man in a wheelchair, while the mudslinging, hypocritical Liberals were seated inside.  Why wouldn't they boo!!AE, I'd say Malcolm Fraser's single biggest achievement was resigning from the Liberal Party in 2009, saying "The Party was no longer a liberal party, but a conservative party".  

Actually, he should have included 'ultra'...

I say "Good on you Jacqui".  I don't always agree with what Jacqui comes up with, but in this instance, she has my full support.  We can't expect our Defence Forces to be willing to be sent into harm's way, while at the same time, devaluing them by technically reducing their income.

Tony Abbott has gone a step too far this time.  To oversee a move which will see Defence Force personnel's pay not even keeping abreast of inflation is a disgrace.  Abbott likes to claim that even MPs have taken a pay cut, but he conveniently ignores the fact that they got massive increases shortly before that cut, so it is of little significance for them.

Anyway, it's time Clive Palmer was brought back to earth - he's been suffering an ego boost of late, thanks to the LNP's courtship with him (something they vowed they'd NEVER do, pre-election - broken promise number????).  

Jacqui's been itching to jump ship, this could be the final straw.Sure Todd "...Liberals only had good things to say about Whitlam."

Such as Abbott spruiking to a bunch of Party faithfuls in 2011, with reference to the Gillard government, "Some say that this is the worst government since Whitlam.  But that is very unfair to Whitlam, who was totally incompetent."  Or, Christopher Pyne, the day Gough died, thinking chose to share a memory of his mother shedding tears at the news of 'The Dismissal' - tears of joy, that is.

Abbott recently stood in Parliament and praised Gough Whitlam, which considering his earlier comments, was an exercise in pure hypocrisy.  It's this kind of perception, which caused people to boo Abbott.  

It wouldn't have helped either that his department, totally stuffed up the seating arrangements, which saw many True Believers, who had been issued with acceptance emails - some travelling from as far as Townsville - were left standing outside, while many of the mudslingers from the Liberal Party were allowed inside.How 'convenient' that the RC into Unions still has a year to run, yet they released findings against some corrupt Victorian Unions, in good time before the upcoming elections.  

Not only that, the Police Task Force which Tony Abbott announced (already recommended by Bill Shorten as far back as April) to be deployed to investigate this corruption, was not made by the Police Commissioner - as is the usual practice in this type of announcement.  There was not even a police presence at the time of Abbott's announcement.  

Even worse, the Vic Commissioner of Police, Ken Lay, was only notified the night before, by an email from TURC Commissioner and was still unclear about details.  Apparently the press had more knowledge about that!!Sorry Joe, but your namesake (Hockey) is doing a good job of stuffing things up currently.

Labor had substantially reduced government spending before the election, Tony &amp; Joe are now increasing it.  Foolishly, they've also reduced revenue by removing carbon pricing - bad for the economy, bad for the environment.  Relying on them to 'fix things' is a recipe for disaster.  

Seems like you are falling for their spin - hook, line and sinker.Admit it Ben, even his own Party thought Howard 'stayed too long at the fair' - just ask Peter Costello!I was no fan of John Howard, yet, for all his faults, he at least said that it is the role of governments to help the less well-off and the disadvantaged in our community.  

He actually made that statement soon after the mean spirited Hockey Budget, which set its sights on "the less well-off and the disadvantaged in our community".  

Speaks volumes really...I have just checked out the electricity savings in Qld (where I live) and the State government information states that general households are set to save $170 per year!  

Also, dairy and bakery products have been increasing considerably in recent weeks - why?  Shouldn't these be coming down, now that their electricity bills have been reduced?  

After all, Tony told us endlessly before the election about the massive electricity increases the Carbon 'Tax' caused these farmers/bakeries.I'm not a Victorian, but I'll be following the result with interest - I want to see that first nail being hammered.  If Tony Abbott thinks slipping his arm around Denis Napthine 'proves' there is harmony and unity between the two, he really is even more clueless than I'd imagined.

Also, the early release of findings by TURC into Victorian Unions, in time for the Victorian elections, has to raise questions about how 'independent'/'impartial' this RC is.Currently, PUP have no sitting members in Qld - they've resigned to become Independents.  I think PUP is a spent force in Qld personally, especially in view of Clive's backflips federally - his credibility is seriously lacking.Yep, the Libs advocate freedom of speech - to be bigots, to make racist comments without penalty, for their MPs to lie with impunity, even to insult in Parliament without question.

Meanwhile, all our other freedoms are being taken away.  What an endorsement...Wow - It's easy to see Peter's really feeling the pressure, he's throwing in as many Labor 'insults' as he can in one sentence.  That old LNP tactic has worn so thin, people are waking up, as the polls are consistently showing.  

Time to get the message Pete and maybe someone should tell Tony too - he's nothing more than an embarrassment now - even some of his colleagues are showing their discomfort in public.Tony Abbott today - standing alongside Mike Baird and a host of others - Um..I'm the Infrastructure Prime Minister and I'm standing here with Mike Baird the Infrastructure Premier of NSW.....  Really mature Tony.  

If he was really telling the truth (which would be a first!) he would say he's the Porkbarrelling PM!Currently it is reported that emissions have come down, due in part to the fact that manufacturing has declined.  It's almost as if this is something to be proud of, for the sake of the environment!

Might I also add, I have received my electricity bill for the quarter, which covers the entire time since carbon pricing was ceased.  It has reduced by $50.  By my reckoning, that makes $200 (give or take a few dollars) per year - FAR from the $550 that Tony Abbott's constantly trumpeting!

That's without factoring in the INCREASES in many products - especially dairy/bakery products, which should have seen reduced or at the very least, static, prices due to the carbon price removal.Have I got it wrong, but doesn't carbon release back into the atmosphere when a tree burns?  Won't this be the inevitable outcome of Tony Abbott's favoured tree-planting, considering the increasing numbers of bushfires we are now facing?  How can this be of benefit?"Hot air" here.  I think Clive Palmer is currently suffering from inflation - an inflated ego - thanks to Tony Abbott's elevation of Clive to a position which he is not worthy of holding (neither of them are, actually).Just like the businesses will be paying a TAX (not a levy) for the PPL.  Tony &amp; Joe are very quick to claim Labor is 'all about taxes', when they themselves have such a fondness for them, but they think by calling them another name, they can fool those stupid voters.Bulldust, the Greens are opposing the fuel tax on principle, something the LNP/supporters would find hard to recognize.  The polls don't support your wishful thinking, that the Greens have "done their dash".Spot on harvey.  It can't have escaped notice the speed with which Tony Abbott committed to the Iraq situation, even before the US requested it, to the tune of $500 million.  

Now, IN SPITE of US requests to assist in the Ebola crisis, we are shamefully lagging behind in both providing assistance and in the lousy $18 million committed to the cause.

With the fruitless search for MH370 (ongoing) and involvement in the MH17 shooting (ongoing), Tony Abbott committed seemingly unlimited personnel and resources.  It appears in Abbottworld, the dead are of more value than the living.  Words such as bignoting and vote values also come to mind.gbe, not with the current pack in government he won't (and I use 'pack' advisedly).  Menzies must be virtually erupting in his grave right now...WP, we've witnessed what Tony Abbott did to Julia Gillard when she beat him in 2010, I'm sure Malcolm would be very reluctant to suffer a similar fate.  Tony's a very sore loser.That's rubbish SVJ - if you can't acknowledge the despicable way he treated Julia during her time as PM, then you are more biased than I imagined.  Kevin Rudd was not much better.I'm sure you've got it right blax5.  Just as John Howard always said their (Coalition's) job was to defeat Labor.  Nothing about implementing the best policies for Australia and those who live in it (the chosen ones, that is)...David H - Julia Gillard's speech was a heartfelt statement which was long overdue.  It was not vindictive (it was factual), but it definitely was personal.  

Abbott made it 'personal - AND sexist' when he stood before the "Bob Brown's Bitch", "Juliar", "Ditch the Witch" signs early on.  Out of mike range in Question Time, he gutlessly goaded Julia with comments like "you're a piece of work", "liar", in an attempt to rattle her.  

The culmination came on the day of "The Speech", when Abbott, having already failed to distance himself from Alan Jones' hateful remarks about Julia's very-recently deceased father (at a Young Liberals do), had the effrontery to use part of that dialogue to describe the Gillard government.

Julia was cheered around the world for her speech.  It was only in Australia, compliments of the sleazy Murdoch Press, did she receive criticism.  

Abbott was only effective in Opposition, because he ran a fear campaign like no other, relying on lies (and a large amount of taxpayer funding in travel expenses) and a compliant media to brainwash the gullible masses.  

Thankfully those with a modicum of intelligence are now waking up to the fact that they were conned.

Yes Alpo, morphing more recently into "Kick This Mob Out" - with the same master puppeteer still pulling the strings.

Of late, I find that whenever Barrie Cassidy takes the government to task (becoming more rare of late - especially when he offers up praise for someone like Scott Morrison), he feels the need to rub 'Labor's nose in it' as well.

What a pity we didn't have this level of discernment during the Labor years, when the focus was continually on them, while the media looked the other way when it came to the Abott-led Opposition - the alternative government at the time.  

Incidentally, it doesn't take Einstein to figure out these changes will come about - the real question is how will they be implemented and what safeguards/balances will be put in place, so that fairness will prevail?  

Given this current government's record to date, I'm sure it will be sooner, rather than later, but the required safeguards/balances will be missing.As I recall Peter, last year, for most of 2013, Chris Uhlmann was given a spot every night on ABC's 7.30 Report (Mon - Thurs) to point out Labor's failings - just in case anyone might have missed it in the Murdoch Press.  At no time was the Abbott Opposition applied that same scrutiny - even though they were being promoted as the next government back then.  It's hardly a coincidence that government MPs are now appearing on his morning radio program, on a regular basis.

It's hardly any coincidence that Uhlmann co-wrote a book with Steve Lewis (of Ashby/Slipper beat-up fame) which is a thinly-disguised send-up of the Labor government.  It's no coincidence that Tony Abbott launched that book from Parliament House and it was reported widely on ABC.  

The likes of Tony Jones, Lyndal Curtis, Latika Burke, Julie Doyle, Leigh Sales have never shied away from hammering Labor guests.  Now, Barrie Cassidy seems to have joined the queue.

If this is the "Leftist" ABC, then I suggest you take up stand-up comedy.

The government is still talking about Labor's Carbon Pricing Scheme and thus avoids discussing their own 'Direct (In)Action' plan.  Tony Abbott campaigned on 'axing the tax', so he should have had his own alternative up and running from day one.  

So far, all we HAVE learned is that most reports show little confidence in the outcome of DA."Only a fool would believe any assurance Abbot gave."

Ditto for Clive Palmer - he thinks a little tweak here and there will disguise the fact that deep down he's still LNP!Greig - that's because Tony Abbott linked the funding of DA to the Budget.  Just as with other unpopular measures, he has had difficulty getting them passed, unless he does a deal with the minor parties/independents - remember? that which he vowed he would NEVER do - BEFORE the election.  

We do know that their plan involves the planting of many trees - when is that ever going to start?  What happens when said trees are caught in the inevitable bushfires for which Australia is renowned, and their carbon is released back into the atmosphere?  What then?Brian, remove the blinkers and you'll actually be able to read what the article is:  A summary released in 2007, by John Howard's Prime Ministerial Task Group, which The Drum is REPRODUCING here today.

Bias impairs vision...Brian, considering this only passed through the Senate during the early hours of this morning, I think your observation is a bit rich.  However, as for the rest of your comment - sorry - it does not even make sense...And in 2009, Tony Abbott famously said, "If you want to put a price on carbon, why not just do it with a simple tax?"

That of course, was a view he held BEFORE Julia Gillard thwarted him by becoming the 'Independents' choice' for PM.  In his desperate bid to reclaim what he thought was rightfully is, he concocted 'The World's Biggest Carbon Tax Lie' in his attempt to bring her down.  

LNP dishonesty knows no bounds...Erick THAT would be a waste of taxpayers' money - and in any case, there seems to no such thing any more, as an 'independent' inquiry.  

I'm sure most Liberals would like to forget the "Utegate" incident - emails fabricated by Godwin Grech in an attempt to discredit a Labor PM.  Who's to say this isn't the case here?

This claim against Nova Peris is a storm in a teacup, no doubt coming at a time designed to distract us from something of far greater importance.  It's a pity reputations have to be tarnished in the process though.Yes Robert, I look forward to the day when the AFP do their job "without fear or favour" - haven't noticed it lately.Me too Olive - I've had three or four knocked back on this article and I have no idea why - they complied totally with House Rules and contained fact, not the fiction which so many are pushing here with success."Why should we accept that they can walk into one as important as politics/"

For the same reason as we have seen a failed priest/'journalist'/second-rate political adviser rise to the rank of Prime Minister, I guess - we are a democracy.  The yardstick can be applied both ways, not just to suit one side of politics...OUB, I will be impartial when I see fit.  To date, I have seen little evidence to invite that.  As I recall, I also decried the release of Barry Spurr's private emails and challenged their authenticity.  However, I also was rightly concerned that if they were verified as true, how much influence he had in holding those views, regarding the education review he was tasked to undergo.  A genuine concern, I would have thought?

With this latest 'sleaze-fest', Athletics Australia have clearly stated that a position was decided on merit, the sprinter Ato Boldon performed his required duties in that position in a very creditable way, the children benefitted by the program - in other words, no wrong was done.  Private emails should remain private.

As for Tony Abbott - I was merely using a factual example - in reply to a question about who should become politicians.  It's the type of comment TA would relish, if he was the one making it!  Don't be so precious...Spud, there is no evidence whatsoever to support your inference regarding Nova Peris.  

I certainly do remember Craig Thomson and I'll pass judgement when the findings are made with regard to Kathy Jackson's alleged wrongdoings tallying well over the $1 million mark.  That would be Tony Abbott's "brave and courageous 'whistleblower'" Kathy Jackson, whom he regularly promoted to bring down Craig Thomson, in yet another (failed) attempt to destroy the Gillard government.Especially those who profit by performing 'charity' stunts - which amount to little more than election campaigning/self-promotion, which we taxpayers pay for...Even John Howard took a shot at this government when he said that it is the role of governments to support the disadvantaged and vulnerable in our community.  

I would say that someone trying to exist for six months without income, while being required to somehow find the wherewithal to apply for five jobs a week (travel costs, appropriate dress) would indeed be considerably both disadvantaged AND vulnerable.  The negative outcomes of this shortsighted plan will see the costs far outweigh any savings.

Not every one exists in the privileged world such as that which the Abbotts and Hockeys enjoy, with the subsequent advantages for THEIR offspring.Yes John51, I think a survey would find the majority under use the system.  There is no way I would choose to visit my GP unnecessarily - sitting in a waiting room for lengthy periods, being exposed to other people's illnesses, for a usually-brief meeting with my GP, is not something I find appealing.

Then there is the false claim by the Abbott government that Labor "supported a co-payment for the PBS, so they should support a GP co-payment". 

There is no PBS "co-payment".  We don't go to a pharmacist, pay a $6 fee and be given whatever scripts our doctor prescribes!  I wish!  The PBS enables us to have certain approved, prescribed medicines at a DISCOUNTED price - often with a great saving, which could otherwise be unaffordable.  

So, if a person has six scripts, they pay $6 x 6 = $36.  THIS was the scheme introduced by Labor, not a "pharmacist co-payment" as the Abbott government regularly claims.Not sure about "MPs being confused about security laws" as the author here writes, but Tony Abbott sure seems confused as to who is the Prime Minister.  Twice today in Question Time he has referred to Opposition Leader Bill Shorten as "the Prime Minister"!!  Freudian slip?..especially when that '10 minutes' is filled with fear mongering rhetoric telling us to be 'alert AND alarmed'.As Paula says "..there will always be politics" - true, but never more so than when we have a conservative government.  With them, it's ALL about 'the politics', not about 'the people'.
Tom "this Government lasting to 2020"?  That thought will give me nightmares tonight (and beyond).

I'm not quite sure about the reference to Bill Shorten's "religious beliefs" - unless you are referring to his address to the Australian Christian Lobby on Saturday?  No doubt he was speaking their language at the time.  

There are definite rumblings in the LNP camp - they are just much better than Labor ever was at keeping a lid on it.  I do think it notable that whenever Tony Abbott is out of the country (which is as often as he can wrangle it) Joe Hockey has a spring in his step, he performs differently in Question Time and even dares to wear red ties!  Rather reminiscent of Kevin Rudd during Julia's absence..."It wasn't Murdoch who lied about a carbon tax."

Oh yes it was Alfie.  Not at first, because The Australian published Julia Gillard's comments IN FULL originally, but Tony Abbott, following his being rejected by the Independents after the election - being the sore loser he is, he pushed the 'Great Big Carbon Tax Myth'.  The gullible and those who don't care for our environment, fell for it.Yes Daisy May - Tony Abbott put all his efforts into bringing down the Labor government, leaving little time to prepare for the role of Prime Minister.  With every passing day, this is becoming more evident.

As for the media, I think it's notable that Bill Shorten announced his commitment to gay marriage on Saturday, which has raised scarcely a ripple - yet Richard Marles' comment about boat turn backs has been on every news, ever since the remark was made on Sunday, even still being a feature on 7.30 Report tonight.  

A positive Labor comment always gets drowned out by a negative.  For the Coalition, the opposite occurs.Well said EM.  Might I also add, that whenever there is a shooting event at a US school (and sadly that is far too often), is there a ramping up of fear, regarding the safety of our schools?  No, of course there is not.  

As for our Parliament, adequate security measures should already be in place there- especially after Bill Heffernan exposed how pathetically lax they were back in (I think) May.  

But it's surely no coincidence that the extreme fear factor, the increased threat 'emergency' seems to exist only during the reign of the Conservative governments?  Do they really expect us to buy it?The nose - that's how it is.  Funny how they can practice megaphone diplomacy now when lives are actually at stake, yet we had a veil of silence with "Operation Sovereign Borders" for ... why was that exactly?  

All we knew of that operation was - "that in order to stop asylum seekers from travelling on the High Seas, putting their lives at risk, we are going to turn them around and force them back over those same High Seas".  Yep, that sounds like a Liberal policy. 

Nowadays, Scott Morrison seems to have a permanent booking with Chris Uhlmann, the mike is practically grafted to his hand - totally at odds with his reticence previously.It's entirely a person's own business if they choose to have cosmetic surgery - no one else's.  Looking at the photo here, I fail to see how the end result even warrants such criticism."Our objection is, ultimately, that women should be free to be who they are, without the need for surgery."

Women should be free to be who they are.Another case of someone having their passport taken off them.  Look how well that works out.  It's no coincidence that the "War on Terror" ramps up only during the years of conservative governments.The author here says "Australia and Canada are the two countries that in many ways most resemble each other."

That's right - they both reject the concept of climate change - which the rest of the developed world is now embracing....Watch Tony Abbott milk this for all it's worth.  Another timely distraction to draw attention away from domestic issues.Watch the rhetoric - the LNP taking advantage of a tragedy (yet again) for political gain.  Great to take the attention off domestic matters and hey, might score a few votes.  Win win...Richard you insult those great humorists!Spot on egg.  The difference between "Operation Sovereign Borders" and the "War on Terror Mark ll" couldn't be more stark.  

Currently they can't wait to rush to the media, spruiking their latest terror alert/activity.  It seems megaphone diplomacy is the order of the day now - a far cry from the secrecy of "on water matters" regarding "unauthorized arrivals".  

What a bunch of hollowmen (and woman)...Gd, the current situation in Canada has come about in SPITE of increased security measures.  

I don't have any particular confidence in anything "Your (he's certainly not mine) Tony Abbott" might do or say, which will prevent "a similar event".  As I recall, only recently we had a young man shot dead in Melbourne, as a failure to assess the situation.  

"Our Parliament" was forced to make changes after one of the government's own smuggled the makings of a 'pipe bomb' into Parliament with complete ease.  Since then, "Our Parliament" - via Bronwyn Bishop and Stephen Parry - in a moment of complete over-reach - banned the burqa from the gallery.  Following a public outcry, they were forced to remove the ridiculous ban.    

"Our police forces" carried out raids which achieved very little - other than scaring the neighbourhoods in the vicinity and ensuring it was all captured on camera.

The terror alert was raised as a final act by the retiring ASIO Chief - a gift to Tony Abbott, who had been faring badly as a result of his broken promises and unfair Budget.  It proved to be a very convenient distraction for him.

None of these measures has caused me to be "glad"...The Slipper/Ashby texts did not in any way affect Peter Slipper's capacity to be a fair speaker.  In fact I consider he was far better in that position, than Harry Jenkins or Anna Burke.  Of course, we've now reached the bottom of the barrel with the current  Speaker Bronwyn Bishop - whose bias is getting in the road of her carrying out her duties in an appropriate or fair manner. 

That aside - I believe the Slipper/Ashby emails were private and should never have been disclosed.  The same should apply here, but now a precedent has been set, the same rules should apply.Peter this man was hired/paid as an 'expert consultant' for the government's review of the curriculum.  He was paid nearly $10 thousand for the privilege.  

The real concern is whether he qualifies to have been given such a role of influence on children's education, when these emails have exposed such a prejudiced and immature attitude.

While I don't believe private emails should be made public, there should always be an awareness by anyone in the workplace that their emails could be read.  In that case they should act accordingly.That's not correct.  Usually on the bottom of those emails there is a disclaimer that the email cannot be shared without the permission of the sender.
The day following his remarks, Mathias Cormann weakly defended himself by saying, "'economic girlie-man' has come to adopt its own meaning.  It is not in any way intended as a reflection on girls, it is entirely intended as a reflection on Bill Shorten."

Senator Cormann seemingly hasn't grasped the fact that in the end, it was a reflection on him!   Borrowing a term for which another person was (and still is) ridiculed around the world, is hardly intelligent thinking.  He also needs to learn that the term "girlie" IS a derogatory term which is offensive to women.  

Calling someone a "girlie-man", is thus offensive both to women and the male person to whom the remarks are directed.

But for anyone to claim it was Senator Cormann's attempt at humour - it clearly was not.  He was using it in the same way as he uses his oft-repeated "debt and deficit as far as the eye can see" "fixing Labor's mess" "budget emergency".  He's serious when he parrots this spin, just as he was with this immature comment.YEs, one only has to watch Question Time in Parliament, to see how the government has turned it into a circus act.  No questions get answered, just insults hurled across at Labor, with complete impunity by the biased Speaker - who once famously said she planned to be impartial!I thought the same Monty - a convenient distraction - and who better to deliver it than Mathias Cormann, who never deviates from the LNP spin - the rehearsed lines "debt and deficit as far as the eye can see" "Labor's mess" "budget emergency", trotted out at every opportunity like some robot, parroting Abbott's phrases.  

He's waiting for the pat on the head, so why not take one for the Team (Australia)?"...and his self-harming habit of cigar smoking."

When the Cormann/Hockey celebratory cigar pics appeared, early next day they were seen doing a brisk walk (accompanied by the predictable cameras) to try to convince us they really were into healthy lifestyles.

It just shows this government thinks we are ALL as dumb as those who voted for them.Well speaking as a woman - it is highly offensive for a man to call a woman "girlie", so for a man to call another man a "girlie-man" one can only imagine it is to insult.Heartily agree Paul.  The speed with which Tony Abbott committed to the fruitless search for MH370, the shooting down of MH17 - with over-commitment of personnel - and now the 'mission' in Iraq - with troops STILL awaiting Iraq permission to act, should be more than matched with a commitment to combatting the deadly Ebola virus.

This is about supporting the living, not recovery of the dead (as in the two airline disasters).Last I heard, the government has committed a trifling  $18 million to the Ebola crisis, yet are expending $500 million to the talkfest (aka G20) which will achieve what exactly?  It's not even planning to allow discussion about climate change - another pressing cause which should be addressed.  

It's also time we were told how much was thrown at the Malaysian Airlines disasters, which were used by Tony Abbott and Julie Bishop as a bignoting exercise of self-promotion.  Still nothing has been achieved in either case.  

There is an old adage "Prevention is better than cure" - I suggest this head-in-the-sand government, starts applying that principle NOW, before it's too late.Not to mention the witch hunt into the Home Insulation Scheme, purely as an act of vengeance by Abbott, in his quest to destroy Labor's name.  So many inquiries/inquests had already been done and this one exposed nothing more - just frittered away multi-millions of dollars, which could have now been made available for this cause.Paula's got the 'big guns blazing' today - leaving no stone unturned, trying to promote Tony Abbott and his government as competent.  

Most of us are going to take a lot more convincing, following Abbott's complete stupidity in threatening the Russian PM (then typically, gutlessly claiming he hadn't the next day - treating us as fools).  

This was soon followed by his Finance Minister's childish use of the much-ridiculed Schwarzenegger 'girlie man' sneer directed at the LOTO.  

Now we have the Indonesian President, being sworn in today, announcing he's taking a harder line than SBY, when it comes to boat turnbacks by Australia.  As I recall, there have been SIX 'inadvertent' enterings of Indonesian waters so far - which either makes the Navy totally incompetent, or 'someone' gave instructions to go ahead.

All in all, things aren't going well for the government, but Paula is doing her darnedest here to convince us that they are.  Nice try, but I don't buy it...Have they indeed Clete?  The polls don't back that up - and haven't since last December.  Now matter how much this government tries to declare "It's all Labor's fault", we are increasingly seeing what a dud we've got for a government right now - and with every passing day, they seem to just get worse and worse and worse...Yes John and the more Morrison is backed into a corner (increasing in frequency lately) the more belligerent he becomes.

This government is treating the Ebola crisis in the same way as they do asylum seekers - make it someone else's problem.  They can't just cherry-pick where they want to be seen as 'world leaders'.  On both these issues, the LNP government gets a FAIL."WHO wants their kids - after struggling to get in and through uni - to come out with a $100k hecs debt??"

And to have to support them for six months of every year, if they can't get a job?  Some Uni trained nurses have already been unable to find work, even outside of their profession.SVJ, in spite of your attempt to detract from the facts, one doesn't have to look far to see the wealth of talent in Labor ranks, as compared to the LNP's - stacked with so many leftovers from the Howard years.rb - did you hear Tony Abbott in Tasmania on Saturday?  He sounded very much like a person in campaign mode to me.  As Tasmania have not long held their election, one could only assume he was already desperate to set himself up for 2016.  

They've been in now for 13 months - how quickly that time has gone.  They are the first government not to have the benefit of a 'honeymoon period' - that's how 'on the nose' they are.John 'one poll does not an election victory make'!Whatever your opinion of young voters - their vote still has the same value as that of a mature LNP voter (I use that term loosely)."People simply aren't listening to him nor do they trust him."

..And when they do listen, they are horrified at what comes out of his mouth "I'm going to ..er .. shirtfront Putin.  You bet you are..(oops) you bet I am."  This is something that might be heard in the schoolyard, made by the school bully, not what one would expect from the 'leader' of our country.  Especially when it's directed at the leader of a much more powerful country than ours.  Abbott does not have a mandate to do this.

Currently, the Russians are laughing, Aussies are embarrassed...Wishful thinking Albo.  Many people are already regretting the choice they made last September, in voting this lousy government in.  They won't make the same mistake twice (not those with any modicum of intelligence, at least).  

There is now more evidence to show disharmony in government ranks, than in Labor's.  Look how Hockey springs to life when Tony is out of the country (becoming more frequent) - then there's Julie Bishop wanting more power.  Then, of course, there's always been the good old Turnbull standby...Albo, the relationship is still not 'repaired' with Indonesia, we are on a good behaviour bond at the moment.  Currently, LNP's 'Stop the Boats' could come to an end, depending on current decisions in the High Court.  Scrapping carbon 'pricing' means they have also reduced much-needed revenue - not to mention being the first country in the world to REMOVE a climate change initiative, leaving us with nothing.

As for our finances - Matthias Cormann is not ruling out an increase in taxes to fund the war effort, while Tony Abbott (desperate to save his own skin and not be seen as breaking YET another promise) says we can afford it without the need for a tax increase.  Why is that?  Because there NEVER was a 'budget emergency'!  That was just another of Abbott's confected phrases to 'put the wind up' the voters.  He operates by promoting fear.Yes, it is notable that it's only since Bill Shorten gave his forthright opinion this morning, on Putin's attendance at the G20, that Tony Abbott has now come out "talking tough".  He was upstaged by Bill Shorten!  Of course, in doing so, Abbott had to go a step too far - "Shirtfronting Putin"?? WT?  

(I checked out the meaning and this is right up there with the worst of Abbott's gaffes - and there have been a long list.)

ps When is Barnaby Joyce going to update us on the sanctions Russia has placed on Australian dairy products and its effects currently on our dairy farmers?  Is that why we are now seeing price increases on dairy products, sneaking through without mention?    

Makes no difference whether sending troops to Iraq was debated in Parliament, or not.  The official stance is, there is no requirement to do so.  John Howard went ahead without even discussing it with his Cabinet.  He broke no rules, just raised a lot of question marks."...there must be an awful lot of ignorant people in Australia?"

Yes, you've got that right Peter - and aren't they an awful lot!!Of course there is sexism directed at women from both sides of politics positions, but when women themselves are involved in endorsing it to be used against another woman, simply because she is of a different political hue, it is incomprehensible.  

This is what Julia Gillard faced - a classic example is the footage of Sophie Mirabella and Bronwyn Bishop standing before those abhorrent sexist signs "Ditch the Witch" "Bob Brown's Bitch".  

Then there was the attack by female journos, under Rupert's thumb, who resoundingly turned on Ms Gillard for her world-acclaimed 'misogyny speech'.  They even made false claims that the then-PM had supported Peter Slipper's sexist texts, when in fact she had denounced them.  Julia was spot on with her speech and all women should have been applauding it.

And of course, there was Kellie O'Dwyers "handbag hit squad" which became a favourite for a while."Australians are far from sexist."

Oh Todd, how you make me laugh.  I have a husband and three sons and believe me, I know how sexist Australian males can be!

As for Julie Bishop being "the most popular Cabinet member" - the 'best of a bad lot' you mean?  She also just happens to be out of the country more, so she avoids scrutiny.No but he did MC the Young Liberals do, where he 'entertained' the audience by claiming Julia Gillard's (very recently) deceased and beloved father had died of shame at the lies she told in Parliament.  

An absolutely disgusting remark, which his friend Tony Abbott failed to distance himself from.  Malcolm Turnbull was quick off the mark at condemning the vile comment, as were many others from both sides of politics, but Abbott didn't front the media until many hours later, with only a mild rebuke to Jones.

Jones mightn't be an 'official spokesperson' for the Liberals, but he sure does plenty of PR work for them!By your flawed reasoning the terms "Bitch" "Witch" apply to both sexes?  That's the first time anyone's tried to present that furphy.Mungo is no 'friend' of mine, as you put it - I agree with his articles, occasionally.  He is someone whom I have accused of sexism in the past, along with Bob Ellis, regarding his attitude towards Julia Gillard.  There are men just like them on both sides of politics and in all walks of life - brought up to believe that a woman's place is in the home - preferably 'doing the ironing'...W/loo

- To be replaced by someone far less competent.  How do you think Tony's "Er..I'm going to shirtfront Putin...you bet you are...you bet I am" remarks over going with Vladimir - leader of a country far more powerful than Australia?  What a goose!  

Please share your thoughts...Well said Jerry.  Unfortunately with the rise of Tony Abbott and his 'blokey' attitude, we have now taken a step backwards once again.CP, what voters WILL see is how this current inefficient government operates:  By fear mongering and lies, playing dirty to trip up their opponents.  They claim 'debt and deficit as far as the eye can see' (if I had a $1 for every time I've heard that furphy, I'd be rich), while throwing money at concocted causes.

We have Tony Abbott saying one thing, his Treasurer says another.  There are constant whisperings about leadership ambitions, but thanks to the compliant Murdoch media, so far it's being kept from the public gaze, pretty successfully - so far. 

This government never went through a 'honeymoon phase', they went straight to being a poorly-performing government.  So far they've had a few red herrings to distract from their incompetence - the search for MH370, the shooting down of MH17, the increased threat level gifted by a retiring ASIO chief and now the constant distraction with terrorists/burqas/war.  

Thankfully, not everyone is being fooled (including some who are now regretting voting for them at the last election).

PS - of the $90 billion you are claiming Labor left in 1996 -  do you realize $40 billion of that was John Howard's OWN debt carried through ever since the days he was Fraser's  inept Treasurer? 

Parroting LNP propaganda, doesn't make it fact. 
Jonathon says:  "Maybe we ought to wonder both whether it matters and whether something better might not evolve to replace it."

Truth in reporting would be a good place to start..."I think you'll find he's and Australian."

True, otherwise he wouldn't be sitting in our Parliament.  Still doesn't detract from the fact that he said he couldn't rule out increasing taxes to fund the war.

The fact that Tony Abbott said otherwise, counts for nothing.  Remember, he famously told us he doesn't always tell the gospel truth - the only thing we can be sure of.Or a non-scripted remark (aka a lie)...Ever since Tony Abbott took over as Liberal leader, fear mongering has become the operative word:  First, the dire risks of Carbon Pricing, which never eventuated, the fabricated 'debt and deficit emergency' even though now they are spending with abandon, the demonization of asylum seekers and now the increased terror threat, which coincidentally seems to occur during times of a conservative government.  Through it all, the LNP has been loyally supported by a sensationalist media, mostly Murdoch-owned.  Given that Murdoch has such a stranglehold in Australian media, there is little chance of balanced reporting.

It's Mental Health Week and the effects of all this fearmongering on even the mainstream population is starting to show, but it is having devastating effects on those who experience mental illnesses.  We have seen the ABC running their wonderful 'Mental As' programs this week, which is in danger of being counteracted by the irresponsible media outlets pushing their fear factor, political point scoring, to favour the current government.  It's a disgrace!It's not so long ago that our nurses wore caps and 'sisters' (now referred to as RNs) wore veils - that was in our mainstream hospitals, not just church-run ones.  And heaven forbid, that their legs should be stockingless!"In OUR culture, it is offensive to purposefully cover your face in public."

Since when John1?  Since people such as yourself became offended by those who don't 'measure up' by your standards?
Many brides choose to wear veils, do they 'offend' you?Shane, if you told me "To get back to the ironing" I would reply, "Good luck with that one - the iron and I have as little contact as possible" - but it really has no connection with the fact that what anyone wears is their choice.  

I wouldn't wear a full-body burqa/niqab in a month of Sundays - especially not in our climate, but if someone else does, that's their business.  Personally, I have never seen a person wearing one of these outfits.  I've seen plenty of women wearing hijabs, which are quite flattering, very feminine and certainly worn by choice.  

As for all the nonsense about what the full-body outfits could conceal, a person pushing a pram, could just as easily be concealing weapons.Mitor who is this "we" to whom you keep referring?  I suggest you use "I" when giving your opinion, as I for one, do not share it.

Mike, a true feminist would support a woman's right to wear whatever she chooses.  For all the misguided rhetoric, the Quran/Koran has no requirement for women to wear veils or a full body burqa.  

The persistence by many in claiming it is the dictate of their religion, is incorrect.John1, I found images of Tony Abbott parading for the camera in his budgie smugglers quite offensive, especially as it left little to the imagination, as to whether he was circumcised.  That was information I really didn't need to know.  A simple towel or slipping into boardies would have done the trick, before presenting to the always-waiting media.  Now he's going with the blue tie and suit to improve the image.

Over-dressed is far more modest than under-dressed!  Incidentally, how many people wearing a balaclava do you run into, during the course of your day?  For that matter, how many do you see wearing burqas/niqabs?Surely Jane, it's the decision for the wearer to decide if it "symbolises inquality (sic), exclusion and oppression" - not you - regarding their own mode of dress?

As for the security at Parliament House - the subject of this article - there are security checks in place to which EVERYone is subjected - removal of face covering (for that purpose only) is/would be a simple process.

"Modern feminism" is supposed to embrace a woman's choice to dress as she thinks fit - it's not supposed to be selective (as that doyen of feminism Germaine Greer was, when she publicly ridiculed our first female PM, for some cheap laughs and political pointscoring, on two occasions no less)...Fred, thousands ARE dying a horrible death and its going to get much, much worse.  It seems you condone the government's stance on not providing aircraft to evacuate those dedicated people who are prepared to forgo the easy life to help in this humanitarian cause - if necessary?  By doing so, this government is now deterring others from going to assist.

That, to me, is 'pathetic'.  - And if being 'lefty' equates to being compassionate, I'm happy to wear the tag.That is my point.  It's time we had that wherewithal.  Ebola won't stay confined to Africa, nor will it be the only crisis which the world faces in the future.  Patients can be evacuated to centres closer than Australia.I agree sns - why not just equip some appropriate aircraft and train personnel to evacuate aid workers (if necessary) in emergencies such as Ebola?  There seems to have been plenty on offer when it comes to activities elsewhere - MH370/MH17/Iraq, which included a fruitless search for a still-missing plane, retrieval of remains from another - with almost unlimited resources offered for that one.    

No doubt, the fact that Ebola is currently occurring in poorer countries, with little to offer countries like Australia, has somewhat devalued their chances of getting our support.  It certainly doesn't provide the same opportunity for Tony Abbott to bignote in the way he did in the aforementioned events.In that case Oaktree, maybe they should recall some of those who are currently 'patrolling' over Iraq?  Notice how the rhetoric has morphed from 'missions' to 'patrols' in recent days?  There's still talk about getting permission from Iraq 'in coming days - WT'???...  It costs a fortune for fuel alone...Malcolm, while financial aid is always needed, assistance with evacuation of our aid workers IF NECESSARY, is necessary.  A spokesperson from Medicins Sans Frontieres said recently, that our current government's refusal to supply that evacuation support, is deterring many aid workers from travelling to assist in the Ebola crisis.

This is not acceptable from a country as affluent as Australia.  Even more so, when we look at how much they have committed to Iraq, the MH 370 search and the "Operation Bring Them Home" for MH17.  Why not commence an "Operation Bring Them Home Alive" for our aid workers?That's it in a nutshell...Well micka, I have supported our involvement (to date) in Iraq, but I also think that support should extend to assisting in the Ebola crisis.  

Just putting it out there to suit your own political agenda, doesn't make it true (just predictable 'adjustment of the truth' from an LNP supporter).Would you make that same statement if Ebola (or some other deadly virus) reared its ugly head in Australia?  

I doubt it...OUB, it's time Australia DID acquire some expertise to deal with crises, such as Ebola.  It won't stay confined within Africa, nor will it be the last such health crisis to emerge throughout the world.  

By your standards, you apparently think that extending a helping hand should only be offered in cases where it affects you personally and/or financially.  Not only is that a selfish attitude, it's also misguided.  Prevention is better than cure.Because that's part of what our Defence Forces do, isn't it?  They evacuate people in times of disaster.  Then remember, don't they run our "Operation Sovereign Borders" in their 'humanitarian' operations to prevent people dying at sea? (Cough).  Of course, it's our Military (aka Defence Forces) who would be the most appropriate to be involved.But it has been pointed out, it wouldn't be necessary to bring these people all the way back to Australia.  They could take them to a closer centre which is especially equipped to deal with Ebola.  Time is of the essence in this disease and surely Australia can take some responsibility for their own, rather than relying on other countries to do all the 'lifting' (a popular word these days)?"And the Nationals are as absent minded and meek as they ever were..."

Whenever I watch Question Time, I find myself distracted by Warren Truss' efforts to keep awake.  Often he is unsuccessful, which is not a good look for the person who takes on the role of PM when Tony Abbott is out of the country (which is often).  Truss has either been absent in recent days, or Peta's spotted his snoozing and shifted him off camera, as my source of entertainment during the boringly repetitive 'Dorothy Dixers' has gone."Not pricing carbon at all would have been a broken ALP policy of long standing"

Correct Marilyn.  Kevin Rudd had a landslide win in 2007 and one of his major election promises was to address climate change.  That was later postponed, but never dropped.  

Julia Gillard stated before the 2010 election, she would put introduce carbon pricing in 2013, then moving on to an emissions trading scheme.  Due to circumstances beyond her control (having to form a minority government), she moved earlier with its introduction - 2012.  

If Abbott had been selected instead, by the Independents, he too would have introduced carbon pricing - which he'd already endorsed, when in the Howard government.  Tony Abbott is also on the record as saying it's 'ok to change your plans, when changed circumstances require it'.  That's what occurred in this instance - 'changed circumstances'.

Abbott just fraudulently manipulated the truth to serve his own political purpose.  The pity is, he was so successful with his 'Great Big New Lie' - even the media fell for it, hook, line and sinker!  Now we are stuck with the consequences:  No climate change initiative in place and a liar leading our country.Yes Greybags, there was a much greater preoccupation with the fact that Julia had no fruit in her fruitbowl and other such arihead moments, than such things as her excellent negotiating skills, never more in evidence than her visit to China, which resulted in closer-than-ever ties formed with that country.  

Ties for which this government is now taking adantage - in spite of Julie Bishop's testing it in the beginning.  Lauding Ms Bishop now, shows how easily the media is prepared to forget all those missteps, yet they 'never let a chance go by' to rehash the past for PM Gillard.AGB, nice try, in your effort to push the knife a little further.  I think since Julia was asked the recent question "Would you do it all again?" and her reply was "Absolutely!" - a "Dalek ripple" went through the LNP ranks - "Destroy!" - just in case Julia returned, to show them what a capable woman really looks like.Yes, Foreign Affairs is not on everyone's high interest register.  In fact, probably the majority of Australians don't give a fig about politics in general.  

One thing I will say for Julie Bishop is, she knows how to play to an audience - perhaps years of childhood practice on the Eisteddfod stage?  

However, the author here compares the current online abuse that's directed at Peta Credlin, Bronwyn Bishop and Gina Rinehart, with the ultra-abuse to which Julia Gillard was subjected, as if they were similar.  Nothing could be further from reality.  

To begin with, Peta Credlin is seen as the mastermind behind some of the worst aspects of this unpopular government.  Bronwyn Bishop is guilty of THE most partisan performance ever enacted from the Speaker's Chair and Gina Rinehart is the mega-rich woman who not only tried to deny her own offspring their rightful inheritance, but who has an inordinate amount of influence on our current government.  All inviting negative reactions.

On the hand, Julia Gillard was attacked right from the start, merely for being the person who defeated Tony Abbott.  To this day he believes it was an illegitimate win - made all the more humiliating in his eyes, that a WOMAN beat him.  That's Tony Abbott,  the then Leader of the Opposition, who was more than happy to stand alongside some of his female colleagues and others, in front of confronting, demeaning, degrading posters of our Prime Minister - made even worse by the gutless claims later "They were unaware of the signs"!  The campaign of hate continued from all quarters and a lesser person than Julia would have crumbled.

While I don't condone any hate-filled comments directed at anyone, I think to claim the relentless, vicious pursuit of Julia Gillard from ALL levels, with the mindless, online chatter that is directed currently at Credlin, Bishop and Rinehart, is WAY out of kilter...or John1, could that be based on the clear evidence we are presented with, on a regular basis?  As an example, one only has to witness their childish behaviour in Question Time, resorting to insults, rather than actually providing even some hint of an answer, to arrive quickly at that conclusion.  BTW, has anyone noticed the 'Dorothy Dixers' are mostly given to those members whose seats are most likely to be lost, next election?
David, the media looks through rose-coloured glasses when it comes to the LNP.  It's been happening for years now - mostly since Tony Abbott became their leader.  

With the Malaysia Airlines catastrophes and the re-run of Howard's War on Terror, Tony Abbott and Julie Bishop have been reported by most of our media as 'world performers'.  What I'm seeing is a continued use of placating phrases, scripted performances and a convenient diversion from the domestic policies which really matter to most Australians.  Even the ABC is falling into line, every day is a continued re-run of the 'threat' we are facing.

I see Labor MPs are still getting the same grilling from interviewers that they received when in government.  When is it going to be the LNP's turn?  They got off virtually scot-free in Opposition and it's happening all over again, now they are in government.  If by chance they get a tough question, they walk away from it.

Even our Parliament no longer performs in the manner it should.  The biased Speaker is allowing it to become a theatre where government members no longer are required to answer questions, instead they are permitted to hurl childish insults at the Opposition and distort the truth, with impunity.  No comeback by the Opposition is allowed."...her performance and judgement were woeful."

Is that right Andy M?  What does that says for Tony Abbott then, that the Independents chose Julia?..And the week before the Scott Morrison piece by Barrie Cassidy, he was singing the praises of Tony Abbott for his 'performance on the world stage'.  Yet we still get the claims that' he's a Labor man, so that makes the ABC biased in favour of the the Left'.This government is travelling a similar path to the Howard government's - only thev've ramped it up a notch.  With their extreme and punitive plans for youth unemployed, with their fearmongering and uncertainty that they've pushed onto people with disabilities (including those with psychiatric disabilities) - wondering if their payments would be cut - and now with this hyped-up 'War on Terror', we can expect to see our mental health services stretched to the limit.

Australia's youth suicide rate rose to its highest level during the Howard years, is Abbott going to go further?  Next week is Mental Health Week, some attention needs to be focused on these issues instead of the constant warmongering, which is all we are hearing at the moment.And taking that even further - the latest Morgan poll revealed that over 60% of 18-24 year olds support Labor.  I think the fact that they Labor is prepared to tackle Climate Change, appeals to them.  That's not to mention the return to university education once again becoming the domain of the 'elite' coupled with the unrealistic requirements for unemployed youth.  

Never underestimate the power of our youth.Roger, you have denied the truth on two counts.  Labor were not trying to limit freedom of the press, they wanted to make them more accountable.  It is to our detriment that they weren't successful.  

As for your dismissive towards Climate Change - thankfully young people do not share your view (and they are the ones with the most to lose if this is not addressed).  

A recent poll shows that over 60 per cent of 18-24 year olds support Labor.  That's because Labor plans to address Climate Change, unlike this government,  who is pandering to people like you to court votes, rather than acknowledge reality.Dissenter, I'm a voter and I cannot agree with your saying "..all the voter is seeing is failure and duplicity".  Unless of course, you are referring to the current government?

The last Opposition Leader who practised negativity on a major scale is Tony Abbott and his credentials have slipped remarkably since the election.  Even his previous supporters are stepping back.  Saying a mindless 'No' to everything is not the recipe for success.Australian governments can commit to war, without needing bi-partisan support.  Indeed, there is nothing standing in the way of Prime Ministers alone doing that, as John Howard did.  It's not popular, but it's not illegal.

So whatever our Opposition says, will make no difference in the end - except in the way they are viewed.  One minute we have people whingeing about the 'negative Opposition', opposing everything, now we have complaints when they show some bipartisanship.  

Currently, they have made it quite clear that they will not support troops on the ground in combat.  Surely to oppose that one measure, will make it more difficult for Tony Abbott to do so.  This should be viewed as a positive.

At the end of the day, whatever the Opposition says, won't change what the government plans to do one iota, but by opposing combat troops, it will surely make it harder for Abbott to do so?Where's Tony - Hear! Hear!  It was unpopular then and it's an unpopular concept now.  Tony Abbott's popularity is already tenuous, to commit our troops to combat would cause more headaches for him - especially with the Opposition and the Greens against it.  His re-election chances are first and foremost on Abbott's agenda - it's nothing to do with risk to troops or successful outcomes.Yes exactly so, Chris L.  It is notable that the 'terror threats' rise during the reign of LNP governments.  The six intervening Labor years, between the Howard government and the current Abbott government, went by with no necessity to increase the threat level, nor were any threats by terrorist extremists, levelled at Australia.  

It's no coincidence!..Or as Tanya Plibersek said today, "I'd rather not see Tony Abbott in his budgie smugglers, but it's a free country and people should be able to dress how they wish".In 30 years time your grandchildren are going to see the effects of not addressing climate change, if your "Liberal side" don't acknowledge the risk.Certainly not the ones Tony Abbott has wasted our money on anyway.  Now he's paying someone to report on the HIS Royal Commission.  Looks like he'll keep going until he gets the result he desires - some Labor scalps!Perhaps the fact that Tony Abbott, in an effort to stay in favour with the Islamic communities here in Australia, says "It's not about religion" then goes on to say these acts "are un-Christian".  For him, it's all about the votes!Speaking of Julia, I have noticed that since her interview with Ray Martin, when he asked "Would you do it all again?" and her immediate reply was "Absolutely!" - the 'Gillard bashers' are out in force once again, bringing Julia's name into the conversation whenever possible.  Surely not a coincidence?  

I realize she has just released a book, but the vitriol of the 'usual suspects', is way more than usual/acceptable for these type of books.  Do they fear a return by Julia?  I would welcome it.AGB, the fear factor that the country would be 'rooned and the vilification of the person who had the temerity to defeat Tony Abbott, had a lot to do with it.

It's rather ironic that the Hockey/Abbott Combo go on about "getting back to surplus" for the benefit of our children and grandchildren, while ignoring the need to have a liveable planet for those children/grandchildren.  We currently have the dubious honour of being the only country to remove their climate change initiative - and have zero in its place.  

That's before mentioning that with the removal of carbon pricing, the government has removed a revenue stream, which seems highly illogical - it doesn't fit their claim of "budget emergency".  Which serves as further evidence there was NO emergency.
