The PUP senators are in for six years do an early electin will nolve anything.As far as I am concerned abbott and all those who voted for him are getting the Palmer chaos they deserve. that goes for deniers and dummies who do not see what is coming.An excellent, informative article.Thanks Matthew- pity our PM and MSM did not  speak to you for some background information before going off half cock.

As Ron Paul said -'without US-sposored 'rregime change: in Ukraine, it is unlikely that hudreds would have been killed in the unrest that followed. Nor would the Malaysian Airlines crash have happened" 
Mearsheimer is right - 'Western response is based on the same faulty logic that helped precipitate the crises"

Just what 'logic" is the West using? What in the hell is it doing and why? It goes into Iraq-supports rebellions in Libya- Syria-Egypt and look how they have turned out.
So far this year Italy and Malta have seen some 80,000 refugees- we shall soon see thousands fleeing Eastern Ukraine.
The West is creating asylum seekers-what are we doing? seems our politics are as illogical as our economies and gone beyond our leaders' comprehension. 
Look at our own bunch of clowns playing at being 'adult'.

We may cry, wail and scream with anger at the tragic loss of so many innocent lives but deep down we are all responsible for allowing such faulty logic to prevail.Did you read the article Joe? I wonder how the pro Abbott mob in say WA and Qld would feel if say Victoria and NSW staged a coup -got rid of him-  held and election an overwhemlingly voted for a commo PM.
Do you think they may feel just a little disenfranchised and want to secede?

@frangipani. I somehow think if say Abbott was replaced WITHOUT the support of WA and QLD LNP MPs there would be hell to pay. so the comparison though far fetched is relevant.
You also forget there was a deal done between the EU-Kiev and the previous President for a constitutional change but the West and Kiev broke that one.

There is a huge difference between the thinking and emotions of ALP supporters and Eastern Ukranians. We cannot ignore the traditions and mind sets of people-which is what the article is about.
I recall a very angry Rudd supporter calling Julia Gillard a back stabbing bitch-think he may havr been all for  an armed rebellion= as are many Tea Partiers in the US.Why do we take sides? Seems to me on the one hand we have the Zionists who are determined that the Promise of a greater Israel be fulfilled and on the other we have Hamas who pray to the same God to help the jihadists throw out the Jews and establish a caliphate over the same dirt.
Seeing dead children with brains oozing out of their little heads must make God regret he ever created monsters who seek to justify such inhumantiy as being in HIS name..

And where is our Catholic led  Government in all of this?- is it pointing to the futility of it all? is it telling the world it is time we refused to have anything with EITHER side- no trade- no arms-no visas- no dual nationality?

Where is the world leader with the intellect and the courage to to speak the damn truth. Both sides are nutters and anyone who supports one side or the other is as guilty as they are.Here we go again- jumping at solutions without firstly understanding the problem.
As with the GFC-  the ME and the terrible MH17 tragedy the 'herd" rushes off to take one side or the other and seemingly not considering the causes of the problem and consequences of any remedial action.
The same herd mentality which righty wails at the loss of so many lives on MH 17 rushes to lay the blame without being aware of the history which led to to that terrbile tragedy - without considering that without that history of  and a little more patience MH 17 would have most likely made it home safely.

And its the same with aslyum seekers-they are PEOPLE,many of them kids, on that prison boat.
What causes people to risk death at sea?
Italy and Malta had 80,000 of them so far this year. Thousands died on their way- five hundred last week- most of them were Syrians-fleeing a war WE-being the West- helped create.
Undoubtedly we shall soon see more refugees from Palestine and probaly the Ukraine.
So by our very own gepolitical and or economic interests we create aslyum seekers- then we demonise them if they seek refuge from situations we helped create.
As least the LNP under Fraser had the moral courage to take in those fleeing a situation our involvment in Vietnam helped create.
Neither the LNP or sadly the ALP has that moral courage.
If they did they would be raising the issue in the UN and telling our "friends" not to create more refugees.  
Why not allow the East Ukrainians to decide who they want? Hold a UN supervised election in the region.Hi Joe;
So what the new President seems to want is what the Israelis want with the Palestinians- peace on MY terms.

An election to decide who the Eastern Ukrainians WANT to join up with and be governed by is the only solution.
If the majority want Ukraine those who do not wish that can either accept it or move to Russia- the reverse will apply if the majority chose Russia.
Reminds me of the break up of Jugoslavia-that too had unsurmountable  ethnic and religous difference.
Either way- we and the West should stay the hell out of it.Hi Joe;

If what you say is right- a UN supervised election would prove it.

There is no way Russia will leave Crimea-and you know it.
Reading this article sees my emotions oscillate between anger and sadness.

Anger at the author for equating the death of so many with the 'reinvention' of Abbott and deep sadness at just how low our collective mind set has sunk.

Rather than a sombre  and deep reflection at the futility of conflict and war which led to their death and a determination to tell so called world leaders not create situations where such tragedies will occur; we are almost celebrating the 'strenght' of our Prime Minister.
Where is the empathy for the relations and friends?- I even find the bring 'them" home almost offensive- who is 'them".
As the PM once famously said '##it'happens". Well he should be showing some real 'strenght" by telling his co world leaders- Ukrainians on both sides to make damn sure ##it does not happen again.
That would be the best from of dignity we could bestow on the victims.
Mr Barnes - i think you need to acquire some wisdom before advising anyone of anything.Thanks Pocketful- I did see your comment on the Annable article and of course agree with you.
Well maybe the spin doctors will now begin to ask who the REAL Tony is-the reinvented one one?- or the one who refused to allow the parents of the asylum seeker who was murdered on Manus to attend his funeral-  who is keeping kids in detention centres and who is holding 157 asylum seekers on a prison ship.


But what really saddens and disgusts  me is that not ONE of our politicians or journos spoke or wrote about the futility of it all and the failure of leaders within the nternational community to find an 'adult" way of resolving disputes.

Oh- really?? What do you call the actions of US Ambassador Nolan who told the Poles 'who gives a #### who the EU thinks whould be the leader of Ukraine" when they were discussing 'regime change'?
Russia became involved when the East was disenfranchised. hence the loss of Crimea. You forget there was  a deal done between the EU-US-the previous (democratically elected) President and Russia. 
As many have said; this terrible tradegy is the result of faulty (and arrogant) Western logic.On Feb 21 2014 the then UkranianPresident and the then Opposition signed an EU sponsored agreement whereby the country would return to the 2004 constitution- a Government of National Unity created and early new Presidential elections would be held.
But the ulta nationalists-supported by the US broke the agreement and took to the streets. 
The rest is histroy and is where the dinsenfranchising of the East comes in.
 Would you at least agree Ambassodor Nolan was 'meddling"
There are many culprits on all sides which caused the tragic and continuing events we are dealing with now.
 Please do some research and take off your damn blinkers.'Why must my friend be afraid to be Jewish" May as well ask why must my friend my afraid to be Muslim- Aboriginal- an asylum seeker- a unionist- a lefty- a Greenie- an immigrant even a woman or anyone who is marginalised by generalisastions.
Maybe they should all be asking if  there is anything in their personal behaviour or that of their country religion or race which leads to marginalisation and if there is anything they could do to change the perceptions?

We all know the 'fringe' loves to hate- it needs someone to lool down in-last week it was the Jews- week before it was asylumseekers-last year it was Julia Gillard and the Independents.

I venture to say the behaviour of Israel and extreme Zionism led to the over reaction by the "fringe" but it also led to disgust by many others.
"My empathy for the suffering in Gaza does not make me anti semitic. nor does it make me pro Hamas or anti Israel-it make me Human".
And I would expect another human whether Jewish or Muslin to speak up about the injustice his or her side perpetuate.
Maybe it is Shame that makes Glen afraid to be Jewish- I know for years i was ashamed to be Catholic when I realiased the evils my Church conducted in the name of God-and to think I once believed how blessed I was to be born in 'the one true Church"'In many ways the US has simply exported its unemployment problems elsewhere"
In many ways the US has exported its whole  dsyfunctional economic system elsewhere.
It began in 1970 with the beginning of the creation of the free market idealogy and the financial capitalist designed debt trap. 
It cut taxes-created a  cheap credit boom- securitisation-CDOs and all sort sof other you beaut instruments of credit and derivatives.
It redistributed-not created wealth- so that the middle class all but disappeared. Unemployment and overty rose.
The ##it hit the fan= and we had TARP- too big too fail and taxpayer funded bailouts.
Over prices assets and real estate in the US and EU tanked. Australia was saved by China and the quick but chaotic action of the Rudd Government.

It started to print money- cashed up its and other vulture banks which caused the problems in the first place.
Now the US in a position of having cashed up banks- a compliant work force willing to accept low wages in an effort to survive (remember Bernake's comments on a pool of unemployed and the GOP resistance to an increase in an already unliveable low minimum wage)ready to pounce on distressed assets worldwide-including Australia.
And what have we got&gt; a Government and an RBA setting us up like ducks in a shooting gallery. 
More fool us!!
Many a tyranny has evolved under the guise of 'law and order' and 'national security".
Why does the Government consider we are at risk. I expect the answer is from jihadists. Why?. Do our foreign policies CREATE potentail jihadists and home grown terrorists? why" Is it too narrow- too biased- too one sided? if so why- if not why?
How much of the strenghtening of the law has to do with possible social unrest as a resilt of growing inequality? People are being arrested in the home of the free and the brave for 'protesting'.
How easy is it for a Government to turn its police and private security foreces on its own citizens in the name of 'National Security"? is that not what he Nazis did?
I think I prefer to be 'at risk" rather than lose liberty. Besides I pay police- Asio -AFP and others to protect me from terrorist attack AND to protect my freedom=and right to privacv.
Next thing Rupert's strom trooper will be given the right to "hack: us to death.'Several thousands died proving that hpothesis wrong" writes Jonathan over the Howard WMD lie.
Several thousands die over many wrong hypothesises- besides iraq= we have Libya- Syria-Gaza-MH 17 and very likely Ukraine.
Take Syria- the hypothesies was that if we helped the 'rebels+ get rid of Assad-freddom and democracy would reign in the country.
How many have died? and what about the rebels we supported- many of them are now in ISIS- some were from our own country- some were the ghouls holdings up heads on stakes.
Take Gaza- our unqualified support for Israel has led to the most extreme right Zionist State-which has no intenion of ever allowing a two State solution-unless on its terms of ultime control over the whole region.
Take Ukraine -rather than calling for peace talks between Kiev and the East -followed by free elections in the East -we took sides- now we canot even get acces to recover what is left of MH 17 and run the risk of an expanded war.
It will take just one deliberate accident for a shell to land in Russia and kill a few Russians-even if he wanted to Putin could not stop the march for 'revenge'.

And this bubmbling Government-led by an incoherent leader wants me to sacrifice by privacy-my liberty-my freedom in the name of the "security risk" they helped create.
Much like the Budget Emergency they helped create.
Team Australia my ass- team wrong more like it.Of coure any price increase will hurt those on low incomes more' as will any cuts in welfare.
In spite of the supposed savings by the repeal of the Carbon Tax our golf club green fees has just been increased by 20%.
That hurts the low income earners more than the high income earners.Simple but true- it also shows the fraud of the CT repeal.Sounds to me like the author of this article is trying to construct an argument to suit his own purpose , ie no change to copyright laws , I would make just 2 comments , firstly no damage being done. I would feel pretty aggrieved or damaged if my copyright was being infringed, its not all about money. Secondly the argument about the effectiveness of stopping it , this sounds like an argument blaming the victim. that wouldn't work in most other scenarios."What makes the Government probelm worse is that it is trapped by both legislative forces and public opinions"

I think it is trapped more by its ideology, secrecy and dishonesty than anything else.
Trapped by its idealogy in its refusal to accept that free market idealogy and the corruption of capitalism it brought has failed. It has no place in the 21sr century where as a very wise person said -"the future is here but its fair distribution is not" 
Trapped by its dishonesty because everything it says or does is tainted-from the treatment of aslyum seekers, to the Middle East, to its budget, its figures, its slogans,its Direct Action, even down it is fraudulent repeal of the Carbon Tax where it promised prices will fall.
Well, just a simple example. My local golf club has just raised its green fees by 20%. Now one would think it would have energy savings as a result of the repeal in the use of its pumps etc.My groceries have risen in price since the repeal.
We go to war in Iraq[topple Sunni Sadam -push Iraq towards Shia Iran with whom we have a dispute over nuclear weapons and Israel- own gola!! Sunnis rebel under ISIS and form an Islamist State-Own goal!!
We support anti Assad rebels in Syria-they trun out to be the most extreme of jihadists- behead people-butcher Christians who lived peacefully under Assad and form an Islamist State- Own Goal!!!
We aupport = arm and fight for the rebels in Libya- they murder Gadaffi- and a US ambassador and have not stopped figting among themselves since. Another own goal!!
We support Israel unconditionally  in everything it says or does-even when it contravenes human rights or international law-there by creating more Western hating would be terrorists. Own Goal!!
We meddle in Ukraince and help break the Feb 14 deal between a democractically elected (albeit corrupt) President -the Opposition anf the EU= so we lose Crimea,start a civil war and lose 298 innocent lives on MH 17. A tragic own goal.
So many own goals excluding Afghanistan and pushing Russia and China together. 
We are led by jackasses!!I think I would have to agree with the general thrust of this arcticle in that we still seem to lack the moral courage to ell our 'friends" where to get off, 
The situation in the Middle East is a prime example. It is NOT in our interests to seeminlgy back everything Israel says or does and join the US and the UN in hitting it with a feather when it is in clear breach of the Geneva Convention and ignores UN resolutions.
Same goes for Syria where anti Assad forces supported by the US and EU do beheadings and form Islamic States.
We remain silent when US and other Western policies CREATE asylum seekers, jihadists and would be terrorists.
As far as the Anzacs and any who died believing they were fighting for US- whether it was during the European dispute between Royals in WW1- the war against nazi tryanny and Japaenese imperialism in WW2- the US led fiascos of Vietnam, Iraq and Afghanistan the point is they died for what they believed in and should be so honored.

But I think what we should also do is reflect on the furitlity of many of those deaths and be determined that we shall not be "militarised' or have our people wasted as cannon fodder for some other country's 'adventures-commercial interests or religious beliefs".Dear JohnnoH;

I never said two wrongs made a right but what comes first =the chicken or the egg? Hamas was created long after Israel was and only as a direct result of the occupation.
As for Hamas hiding behind women and children- in a highly populated place like Gaza it is impossible to seperate militant from civilans.
I lived in a war zone during the war- there was an anti aircraft battery just  down the road from us. One day it received a direct hit - the "hit" also destroyed two houses nearby and killed a few civilians.
So to accuse Hamas of hiding behind women and children is the sort of lying propoganda which I do not fall for. The Brits would said they did not target civilans when they bombed Dresden, neither the the Luftwaffe when it bombed Coventry- but thousands  of women and children died-particualry in Dresden. Were the military hiding behind woen and children?
Spare me the crocodile tears and cut the crap. At least have the courage to say  "##t" happens when we are trying to pulverise the enemy.Dear Johonoh:

Furthermore- No-there is no way i think burning of Synagogues is OK and yes it does remind me of the 1930s BUT I also think the bombing of Mosques-as in gaza_ is also not ok.
One wrong leads to another. I think we need to asK ourselves WHY- these things happen.
Seems to me many a persecution complex arises out of the behaviour of the 'victims" in the firse place- not always of course but maybe more often than we care to admit.At least Christine Milne has the courage to say it as it she sees it and I agree with her.
But where is Bill Shorten? He did not call for a RC  into the Finance Industry- is silent on raising corporate taxes andha snot offerred one alternative policy to the Abbott shipwreck.
Is the ALP scared of offending big money as well as big unions ?Excellent.balanced  post. Who chode between evils- have nothing to do with either but be ready to help with reconciliation.Well said Lester.Jim you have again tried to use human rationale to bring about a change to society that will bring about great detriments. Marriage has always been used for the procreation and raising of children, and since same sex marriage cannot do this, it cannot use the same term that defines marriage. 
You said, "Does it devalue existing marriages? No. Does it deny people the right to believe in a god? Will churches be compelled to perform gay ceremonies? Of course not."
That is your opinion don't tell me if it devalues existing marriages. I don't want to use a word that associates me with a relationship that is unnatural and by allowing homosexuals use the same definition of the relationship I have with my wife does devalue it. Also you obviously don't believe in God as you have used a small g. This tells me that you don't recognise the sinfulness of homosexual behaviour. Also by ignoring God by continuing to encourage the flaunting of homosexuality, has eternal ramification. Finally, you say that churches won't be compelled to perform ceremonies for homosexuals. You have obviously not done your research because many countries after bringing in homosexual marriages with the promise you talk about, have now compelled churches to performed homosexual marriages.
Be prepared to see society break down the more you and the others who agree with your point of view move away from God and His perfectness and holiness.'Because of its history,geograpgy and mixed sympathies of its people Ukraine could never be asked to chose between Europe and Russia without tearing itself apart"
One would have thought that with such an obvious fact our so called Western leaders would have proceeded slowly and tried to get the East on side. In fact-the EU did when it signed the Feb.2014 agreemment with the then President and the then Opposition to revamp the Consitution and hold new elections within a matter of weeks.
But thanks to US Ambassador Nuland- Sen McCain, ultra Ukrainian nationalists  and others inciting the crowds the democratically elected President was removed. He well may have been a proper asshole but an election was only weeks away-why the rush?
That led to the loss of Crimea and the rebellion in the East.

MH 17 with 298 innocent people on board became a victim of geopolitical/economic games. As others have said- without US sponsored regime change -that may never have happened.
They are the facts and any attemp by our so called leaders or media to muddy the truth only increase my grief and  anger at the unnercessary loss of so many lives.
And at the stupidity of our PM. Rather than point to the utter futility of the conflict he took sides.He needs to join in with the Dutch Government and tell the Ukranain Government to CALL OFF all military action and TALK to the separtists=with a view toi allowing our people onto the crash site.
if not- the Ukrainian army may well push the separtists out of the area- but they will need a much bigger army to keep them from mounting attacks-putting our people at risk. And what do we think the Russians may do?- sit quietly while more innocent people are butchered?
The US Secretary of State says the West wants a diplomatic solution- tell that to Kiev- tell Kiev to hold free elections in the East-or is that 'diplomatic" solution like the one he seems to have in mind for Gaza- perpetual occupation?
How much longer are we to put up with damn geopolitcal/economicaly induced LIES!! And they wonder why we are losing faith in them-ALL of them?'What I get from your rant is that Ukrainian politicians are guilty of doing politics" and "I can't even cumpute the dafttness of your attempt as false equivalents"
Well I guess the reason why you cannot compute is your failure to understand that :doing politics: is precisely the problem.
Just point out my 'false" equivalents- BTW I though it is the Ukrainain army  which its attacking its own people.The solution is simple Joe-hold UN supervised elections on the East and let them decide.
After all-even the Scots will soon be voting on 'separation".Well, while I admire her energy and undoubted compassion I must agree she, and the Government did stuff up big time by taking sides.
Just this morning she was reported as saying she fears Russia is "hindering" access to the crash site. 
Hang on a minute- it is the Ukranian army which is doing the attacking in the area not Russia. And did the Russian backed seperatists not recover most of the dead and hand over the black boxes?

Her latest comment is the sort of 'propoganda" which annoys the hell out of me and makes me doubt her sincerity and that of the Government- makes me think the focus is on the "politics' and not the victims and their families.

If it was we and all of our "friends: would be calling on the Ukranian Govenrment to cease ALL hostilities- call for UN supervised free elections in the region and allow our people to get on the crash site and do what they have to do.
Why is that os damned hard? Can anyone tell me?Extract from the Journal of Economic Methodology: The complexity of the world in which we live exceeds our capacity to comperhend it. Confronted by a reality of extreme complexity, we are obliged to resort to various methods of simplifications:  Generalisations,dichotomies,metaphors,decision rules and moral judgements,(slogans) just to mention a few.These mental constructs take on a (subjective) existence of their own,further complicating the situation"

When we have a Goverment which does not even recognise the reality of its own responsibility in creating debt driven economies which are the root cause of mess we are in what chance do we have of comprehending of why its free market ideology has failed?@rob- 'we have to increase output"
Avances is in technology- robotics etc  IS increasing output= without an increase in jobs- so what do we do?
Jeremy Rivkin is predicting almost zero cost production.
Think we need some deeper thinkers than Abetz--don't you?Maybe just maybe industry and govt could work on this.  A few ideas

1.  If you get an employee on a 457 you also must train an Australian to replace the 457 visa employee.  This would provide the skill base we need and limit 457 visa nurses/IT profssionals etc where there is a glut of graduates.
2.  If you dig it out of the ground you pay enough to estabish a sustainable industry to replace what you dig up.  Maybe ths would create sustainable industry employing people and not waste our resources.  Have a look at what they have done with the petro dollar in Arab countries
3.  Don't waste opportunities such as the GFC by giving people money to buy imported TV but use the money to establish infrastructure for industry eg ship building.  Why can Korea build ships with workers on comensurate salaries to Austrwalian worker and Australia cannot.

Both side of politics pander to one margin or the other.  In this case LNP is pandering to those who can make profits greater than some states State health expenditure, for purely idelogical reasons.  Similarly the repetition of rhetoric, correct or not, simply allows the ignoring of facts and perpetuates back slapping amongst mates with fundamentalist characters (they think it, therefore they believe it so every one else is wrong irreszpective of rational argument)

The positon we are in is a blight on both parties with Abbot simply pouring petrol on a fire light by his predecessors of both political persuasions and making it much worse

Think I might emigrateHas anyone asked these radicals why they are so radicalised to the point of such inhumanity?
Did anyone ask the SS why they hated Jews so much? Did anyone ask Lt'Calley whe he butchered so many innocent women and children in Vietnam?
Did anyone ask those settlers in Israel why they seemed to be enjoying looking down on Gaza being bombed and burning  as if it was  a fireworks display?Does anyone ask why seemingly good people do such evil things?

If we cause or sponsor wars as in Iraq- Syria- Palestine- Lebanon- Libya do we not create radicals?
Why did these two join up with ISIS and not Assad? did we-meaning our "frieinds" not co sponsor the attempted regime change there. As these two were fighting against Assad does that not make them allies of ours?

What a perverse world we have created. If we want to stop radicalisation by all means do what the author suggest but also ensure you do not add to the radicalisation by giving extremists the reason to hate you.
'Peace cannot be kept by force-it can only be achieved by understanding' Einstein- 








I wonder what James legacy will be after Asada start banning the players? As for James, I thought he was going to be in a good place when the truth comes out, which makes me wonder why he is in court trying to stop the truth from coming out.

No sympathy, none at all for James. Fantastic player, one of the best I have watched but the last three years have been a real shame.There are over 200,000 over 50 Australians on the dole. The number of older poeple on the the dole has dramatically increased over the last four years.
These numbers are likely to grow with advances in technology- robotics etc.
They are likely to grow further with the lack of returns on savings.
Youth unemployment is up to 25% in some areas. 

And what does this dumb Government do? hit the vulnerable harder. If it wanted people to work -CREATE Government jobs until the vaunted private enterprise can take up the slack.

But that really is not its agenda is it? That is to create a pool of desperate unemployed so that as one Alan Greenspan once said- 'keep corporate costs down and profits up"

We know the LNP is keen on the US model. Well a picture on Bule Nation Review said it all.
Between 1947 and 1979 middle incomes in the US grew by 111%- the top 1% income grew by 61%- we all grew together said the caption.
Between 1979 and 2007 middle incomes grew by just 18%-top 1% grew by a staggering 224%- we grew apart said the caption.
Well it seems the Government is determined to widen the gap and demonise the vulnerable, 
its very good at the demonising- Gillard- Independents- asylum seekers-renewable energy- climate change- unions- the young and now the old.
Is that not what all dumb tyrants do?'Forget the failings of great and powerful friends,however.When it comes to acting first and thinking second the fiasco in Donetsk suggests the Australian Government is quite capable of throwing Australian personnel in harms way"
Acting first and thinking second is the MO of our Prime Minister and this the most incompetent of Governments.

Anyone with the slightest bit of common sense and knowledge of history should have foreseen the result of the US sponsored regime change in the Ukraine.

Instead of calling on Kiev,the seperatists,the EU and Russia  to show humanity and 'TALK PEACE" so that recovery could proceed our PM took sides and tried to make himself a hero.

Interestingly while Kiev made preparations for more war- the separists acually DID recover most of the dead and handed in the black boxes.

As Matthew said -Ukraine is split but it seems that is something our Government seemed incapble of grasping..

Now we have The FM wanting our AFP to be armed- what with-side arms? -against machine guns? Heavy weapons?- sure the separtists will allow that.
What does she or the PM say about Kiev breaking her own drafted UN resolution?

As for our great and powerful friends? they have as much foresight and wisdom as a dead dodo.We are not heartless FB- far from it. I would have thought it would have been far more caring and effective not to indulge in the blame game from the beginning but to call for reflection on the futility of conflict. And to appeal to the humanity and help of all stake holders to TALK PEACE and allow dignified recovery.
I did not hear ONE world leader-including
our own talk peace- in fact as far as I am concerned the only ones to show any decency were the so called rebels who did recover most of the victims and handed in the black boxes.
Apart from the Dutch of course who have been absolutely magnificent.
Frankly I find 'Operation bring them home" offensive-heartless and typically sloganish.Thanks Peter=thanks for being at least one other who is grateful for what the 'rebels'." did.'In actual fact the Ukranian authorities seem to have ramped up military action"

In all the media hype over increased sanctions over Russia this morning this fact was over looked.
Except on the ABC there was one single sentence which said the Dutch Government had requested the Ukranian Government to call of fall military action until the recovery teams finish their work.
One sensible line in all of the damn grandstanding.This article clearly lays out the events which led to the tragedy of MH 17.
298 innocent people were caught up in a geo political/economc game waged by a bunch of psycopaths pretending to be world leaders.
The news this morning is full of more of ra- ra stuff which caused the problem in the first place-except for the one sensible comment -from the Durch Government calling on the Ukranian Government to halt all military action.

With our and our friend's refusal to even acknowledge their own responsibilit yon this mess and now their ramping up of the rhetoric I can see another Gaza developing.
I cannot see Russians sitting by idly while their kinfolk are butchered-they will volunteer in their thousands and take arms with them over porous borders- with or without Putin's approval. 
Th eonly solution are free elections in the East so that the people decide for themselves who they want to link with-Russia or the West.Why is that so hard?

if not there will be more radicalised terrorists created. 
We seem very oood at that- so good that we now have them in our own country and if the Palestine thing is not sorted out soon we could have 250m of them just across the sea.Faced with the tragedy of MH 17 and the need for recovery a true leader would not have shot his mouth off first by laying blame and trying to be the 'hero'.
A true leader whould have called appealed to the humanity of the Ukranians on both sides to make peace so as to allow dignified recovery of the victims.
A true leader would have sough the support and co-operation of every other world leader and the UN to show some humanity and NOT seek to point the finger and make out he is the tough guy guy .
A true leader would acknowlege the fact that the separists-although in a war zone and under military,political and economic pressures DID recover most of the victims and sent them on their way home.
A tue leader would not put militaristic connotations to it and would not over promise- a he did with MH 370.
But then we do not have a true leader  but as one of his own said ' a reinvented" one.
Alan Kohler showed two graphs last night.The first showed that household incomes had the slowest rate of growth in the last quarter in over 30 years .The second showed household debt had grown faster than corporate debt.That is what failed free market Abbott,Hockey economics have achieved.Will GST be added to the $7 payment another income for the governmentSeeing the mess we have in the ME with both the Zionists and Hamas calling on the same God to either fulfill his Promise of a greater Israel or help the jihadists to throw out the Jews and establish a Caliphate over the same dirt the less damn scripture we have the better.
Teach it in a historical (more like hysterical) sense maybe but not as a form of moral behaviour-leave that to Aristotle and his Ethics.'We cannot solve problems by using the same kind of thinking we used when we created them" Albert Einstien.

'The basic concept behind free-market economics is simple and seductive: the Government should not attempt to pick winners by granting assistancs to specific industries, and it should only intervene when there has been a sustantial market failure. The only trouble with this theory- as the global economic didaster has show -is that it is based on ideology, not evidence, and it can't withstand contact with reality. Free market economics have failed" Martin Feil.  
Time for a new paridgm- ethical business practices where profit is not at any price but moral would be a good start -followed by investment in real things not speculations.@AE- How about a bit of  intelect!!

There are three classes of men,lovers of wisdom,lovers of honour and lovers of gain" PlatoAbbott=the pugilist is at it again- shoot first and ask questions later. If he bans Putin who is not directly involved in the MH disaster will be also ban the President of China- where human right abuses are still going on- or the Prime Ministe of India- where rape is common?

And who in the hell is he to throw stones about 'transparency" how tranparent has he been over the 153 missing aslyum seekers?
Where is his condmenation of the dumb actions of the West in not thinking of the reaction of Eastern Ukranians who feel disenfranchised by the removal of their democratically elected President? Had their concerns been considered Crimea would still be Ukranian and all this mayhem could have been avoided. Where is the comdemnation of the killing of Palestinan children?

Conrast Abbott's shooting off of his mouth with the measured, adult, strong  and yet compassionate reaction of the Dutch Prime Minister. He is wisely keeping his powder dry until more facts emerge. 
I have a nasty suspicion Abbott is playing to the electorate and for reasons stated above, I  do not buy it. 
Does anyone really know the real reason for the invasion of Iraq?- were GWB-Blair and Howard really so naive as to believe the removal of Sadam would lead to a stable,secure and democratic Iraq?
Were they really so dumb as to not think of the reaction of the various competing interests in the country? 

Seeing as how dumb the West was in not thinking of the reaction of those in Eastern Ukrain who feel they were disenfranchised by the coup which removed their democratically elected President, even though it may have been desireable maybe Western leaders are that dumb.
Maybe not- maybe it is all part of a great big gepolitical,economic end game with Israel at its core.
Whichever it is, Western leaders should acknowledge their role in many of the global messes.
That in no way excuses the role Russian-Israeli, Arab, Muslims and increasingly Chinese leaders play in creating messes.

There are not many wise adults around-if there are they are quickly silenced by  greedy-egotistical- power hungry-manipulative forces of vested interests." When we give up and don't participate. we lose. We will continue to see  the collapse of the middle class and in increase in poverty,cuts to social security and medicare. A growing gap between the very rich and everyone else.No increase in the minimum wage.no effort to make college more affordable and more devastation because of global warming"
Bernie Sanders- US Indpepedent Senator.

USA today- Australia tomorrow!! 

The cabal of banks- industrial and military complex and compliant Governments is   global.
The ALP is conspicious by its silence on the need for a Royal Commission into the finance industry and for not telling it as it is.
It is up to us to become involved.Maybe you could show some integrity by posting full Abbott quotes on the subject,all of them.I am surprised there are rules against any dishonest and unethical behavior in your world.Why bother with making burglary a crime when you obviously have nothing worth stealing?Deniers have always denied the science.They denied the planet earth is round , they denied tobacco,asbestos,DDT,lead and many other poisons were harmful.Enough said!,Bill Shorten does have the opportunity to to show leadership and indoing so show up both 
PUP and the lNP for the charlatans they are Whether he has the guts to do so by TW.telling it as it is remains to be seen'The climate change debate has turned into a circus over the years because of one thing -money"
 
The same "dirty money" all other industries proved harmful to humans-like tobacco-asbestos- agent orange- DDT  used/uses to cloud the 'science".

The irony is that as with all of those industries the climatic and physical effects of the fossil industries and our non action will do us more harm economically as Australia slip futher away from  the 21st century.

Meritocracy: rule by people of superior talent and intellect"
Intellect: "Power of thinking and reasoning"
i do not think such persons have ever ruled any part of this planet- had they we would not be having this discussion.
But there have been rulers who THOUGHT they were meritorous and managed to convince others into believing it.
With such a lack of intellect the world cannot possbily be a meritocracy-only delusional.
A man with obvious intellect was Einstein who said " A person starts to live when he can live outside himself" Can conservatives do that?

The most perfect political community is one in which the middle class is in control. and outnumbers both of the other classes' Aristotle.

So it seems to me the world would be better off progressive than meritorous-the only thing holding it back is the delusion of meritocracy.'Our current level of expenditure is unsustainable with our current tax base" 

But what if the tax base was expanded to repeal (there's that word again) tax avoidance schemes such as negative gearing-family trusts- super tax benefits and non or low tax paying business such as Apple or Westfield made to to pay their fair share.
What if the Henry Tax review had been accepted in full?- what if the carbon and mining taxes are NOT repealed?

What if the Howard LNP Goverent did not squander the resources boom with unsustainalbe tax cuts-what if it did not create a debt (private debt) driven economy?
I think you will find that while Labor can be accused of being politically naive and cowardly the bulk of the blame must lie with the LNP.

The reality is that NOT one politician that I can see is really saying it as it is- 2014 is different to even 1994-just do a compariosn of househhold debt levels?

Simon is just being political-not one bit of reality in his whole article.
You will find the comments from the neo con ruste ons just as political and  just as idiotic.'Australians get creamed by financial advice and wealth management industry while they are saving for rttirement and get scalped when they get there"

Australians are creamed by the finance industry under the guise of financial capitalism AKA as the 'free market" period.
With the amount of private and sovereign debt hoisted on them they are creamed from cradle to grave=and beyond.
There is no way this Government will call a Royal Commission into the finance industry and regulators like ASIC. To do so would run the risk of exposing the full monty of a corrupt system. But of course that is exactly what is required to achieve the changes we need to save our democracy and our kids' future.

I see the ALP, rather than call for a RC is calling for yet another Senate inquiry.
it is only marginally less of a prisoner of the system as the LNP is- but  is still within the same cabal.How many shades of grey are there Peter?
Te capitalism which gave us the standard of living some of us now enjoy began in 1945 with the growth of the middle class and began its demise in 1970 with the launching of the financial capitalism debt trap.Suggest you read what Prof Carrol Quiqley.

We then had the wealth redistribution from the middle class-working poor and poor to the top 5% giving us the rising inequality we have now.
Tell me -how much global debt is there now? what % is private and what % is sovereign-same for Australia? -then manbe you can tell us what level of 'growth' is required to 'fix' that budget emergency- raise prosperity and reduce inequaltiy.
Should not be too difficult for a self styled intelligent person like yourself.

Now let me explain something to you- when the dons of free markets such as Alan Greenspan and Tim Geitner admit they were wrong only fools still believe your ideaology.Frankly I do not give a hoot on what the majority' think- history shows that it is often wrong.
The way I see it man has always sought a 'better life"  it is how us non indigenous came to be here?What refugee camp did Captain Cook come from?
However I accept that we cannot possibly take in all those who may want to come here.
This is a worldwide problem and I do not think our Government's lack of empathy-indeed its dehumanising of asylum seekers will over the long term do anything to solve it= only to show us up as a nation of cretins.

I would like my Government to:
. tell our friends to stop creating more and more refugees- as in Pakistan, Syria, Iraq,Sri Lanka and elsewhere
. tell other Governments and multi  nationals to stop doing deals with despots which abuse people. 
.raise merry hell in the UN for it to address the issue in the source countries.
; process asylum seekers on shore as quickly as possible-allow those who are genuine refugees or we feel can contribute to the country to stay-up to a maximum we know we can cope with. Send the rest back or to somewhere like PNG or Nauru until such time as the UN gets its act together.
Deduct that cost from any foreign aid to any source country or one which refused to help find a solution.'There are no easy answers". I totally agree Hawko but there are lots of wrong answers and dehumanising asylum seekers is just one of them.

I have no doubt there are many among them who want a 'better life". If you were discriminated against because of your colour-race or creed or worse (like persecuted) you too would want a better life- our ancestors did.
Europe is now getting them by 5000 people boat loads- the US has thousands of kids from South America coming across.
Like climate change it is an international problem and requires an international solution-the propensity of the West in creating more wars and strife (nd more refugee) as in Syria does not help.
I say process them on shore- as quickly as possbile  -send non genuinine refugees  back and raise hell in the UN for a global solution-maybes by improving things i source countries.
As for them drowning - while I say we should try to save as as many as we can that is the chance they are obviulsly prepared to take- no ones fault!! 
The boats have not stopped!!.The new senators may be a representation the of community but which section of the community?
With just .05% of the vote who does Senator Muir represent?
Does anyone really know what he thinks?

I think it matters not whether a politician is a"professional" or not- it is his or her beliefs and policies which matter.
In Senators Day and Leyonhjelm we seem to have two from the extreme right and in Senator Muir and the three PUP Senators we seem to have Palmer's puppets.
Whether it seemingly turns out as it seems remains to be seen but I do think the last thing this country needs is a further swing to the right.

I would be interested to know if any the new and old Senators watched Four Corners last night.
If they did I would be interested to know what they rhought about it- having heard the dirty tricks of power generators exposed and the Government guaranteed  required 10% ROI on their bad investments do they still believe the Abbot and Hunt b/s?
Are they happy so see us left behind in the new emerging technologies?

These new Senators have a lot to prove-hiding behind Clive or the LNP will not cut it.I remember one friend who was able to reduce his taxable income ( from negative gearing several properties ) so much that he was able to get family benefits. Does not seem rightVanerver Bush would agree with the following "the complexity of the wolrd in which we live exceeds our capacity to comprehend it. Confronted by the reality of extreme complexity. we are obliged to resort of various methods of simplification:generalisations,
dichotomies,decision rules and moral precepts.
Tony Abbott gives me the impression  he is utterly incapable of even attemting to comprehend the complexities- unfortunately Bill Shorten does not seem to be much better.  

So we are left with either baised or lazy MSM and comments from rusted ons.

Take the issue of debt for instance. On the one hand we get Hockey and Co raving about 'a budget emergency and on the other Bowen and Co denying the problem.
The truth of course is it is a problem but not as big a problem as Hockey makes out.
The bigger problem which no one wants  to talk about is PRIVATE debt. When does it ever get a mention in Parliament -MSM-pr on these  columns?

No one asks the question of just how the econoy is expected to 'grow' sufficiently to repay debt- increase prosperity and reduce inequality- at a time when the Boot Goverment is cutting disposalb rincomes to over indebted househholds?
How much gobal debt is there?

I suspect that many=particulary neo cons who are now beginning to see the downsides of the world they helped create would rathe rnot ask those questions-but some of us do.Your first sentence covers it Ann- you go to the top of the class but please can you explain that to  Treasurer Hockey?I wouldn't like to see Mr Abbott's salary tripled, but I look forward witnessing him getting fair payment for his conduct, not just while in government, but also as the engineer responsible for the noxious state of Australian polity and political discourse.You are right on that we need the CREATION not earning of wealth and taxation firthy.
The problem over the past few decades is there has been more wealth made (not even earned) through cheap money funded speculation and redistribution by and to the top than there has been wealth created through investment.Way back in 1962 we had a block of land and some savings. We went to the bank for a housing loan. The manager told us he could not let us have the loan -becase the repayments would be more than 25% of MY (my wife's was not considered) take home pay/ He said he would not be able to sleep at night wondering how we would pay for it. Told us to go and save some more. We did ad he gave us the loan.
That IS capitalism not the predatory kind you mention.
Since when do I have to defend the ways of crooks?"The GFC was caused by asset bubblrd funded by cheap money. Its ludicrous to think we should follw the same course of action and expect different results"

But we did- with Howard's debt driven consumption/economy. We still are- with the housing bubble.I submitted a comment suggesting this is all about the weaving of a tangled web by financial capitalism under the guise of the :free market: but it seems it may not have passed the moderator.

OK- lets try again by asking one simple question-how do we escape an '"era of secular stagnation" with the level of global debt we have in a finite world.
Before you answer that figure out how much of that debt is PRIVATE,consider  Alan's words that 'Too much debt causes individuals to spend less" and figure how how much "growth" we need to  escape a worst recession.
BTW- Labor may have added to the problem but id did NOT create it.
Howard and Costello had more to do with that than Labor.I have seen both sides of the equation. I was a single parent with two kids -one was seven the other three.
i had a fairly high powered job- ran a consultancy business in the corporate sector  employing some 25 people.
i saw share price ramping- dodgy company floats and abuse of shareholders' funds-not to mention sweetheart deals with bankers-journos- accountants- geologists and lawyers.
Judging by the Senate report into ASIC and CBA-nothing has changed.

I had to have a baby sitter cum housekeeper- one I got was also a single parent with six kids-all of which were on the dole.She spent many a night with her supposedly seperated husband. She lived in a five bedroom housing commission home-each kid had his/her own TV and four had cars. 
Now it irks me when MSM particularly  News Corpr hits on one and not the other.

However in my now long life I have come across more decent-fair dinkum human beings than assholes.
We- I think no thanks to MSM seem have drifted into a society of finger pointing'always looking for the negatives in  other people= as if we need others to look down  on us to make us feel better.
I wonder if its time for some reverse psychology- let us not waste time and energy on the shsyters but let us laud the the decent and the silent- beginning  with the ones who are the backbone of the country- those on PAYG wages,the ethical businesses and those who even though incapicitated in some form have the courage to do their best.I would urge all to write to the incoming senators to do their own research of the facts BEFORE agreeing to vote one way or the other.
It is incumbent on each and every one of them to do just that-not to follow any 'party line" tainted with its links  to vested interests.
They have the opportunity to show real independence and show us how real democracy works.
I for one will be holding them to account and will be grateful to them if their decisions are based on FACTS not slogans. 

Well said Jay- but you know what? I think -or atleast I hope that we are transitioning to a society as how it used to work.
It should be obvious to even the most rusted on neo con that continuing exponential "growth" in an over indebted,finite world but with rapidly advancing technology (read less jobs) is simply not sustainable.
The merging of communications. renewable energy and nano technologies will see emergence of a more collaborative system of business where we wil do away with the specious notion that everybody has to 'earn" a living. You will see a society where we will have more time for family-friends and community to do the learning and earning as you suggest.

Expect that may be a difficult concept for neo cons to get their heads around but in truth the alternative is social disintegration on the altar of excessive greed.These few lines in the article really interested me.
' David Keith -a professor of public policy and applied physics at Harvard presented a case for climate engineering"
It interested me for some time I have noticed strange cloud formatiions and an unual numbe rof very still and warm winter nights.
So I did some googling and found articles about chemtrails ands HAARP stations.
Seems they are bombarding the atmospher with chemicals and high frequency.
Has climatic engineering started?- seems Governments love this engineering stuff. We have had biological-crop-financial-geno- asylum seeker and now climatic engineering- all conducted in secrecy.
And they call it 'democracy".

And it is going on while our Government distracts us by the b/s of the repeal of Carbon Tax- and the lying promises of lower power prices.
I for one would rather pay an extra $10 a week to help save the environement than have secret climatic engineering with unknow side effects.

As for deniers- I suggest you read "The Merchants of Doubt" about the tactics vested interests like the tobacco and asbestos industries use to muddy the eceince and dupe the ignorant.
How much are the clean ups from those 'accidents" costing rob? Why would we want to use something we know is deadly,ever lasting and and expensive when we have the emerging merging of communications- renewable energy and nano technologies to drive the new and coming Third Industrial Revolution.
The only thing delaying-not stopping it- are the vested interests of fossil and nuclear energy who want to dig up as much of the stuff as they can before they and crony capitalism are overcome by new mind sets.
Just as the feudal land lords could not stop the industrial revolution neither will the financial fuedal lords stop this one.
I hope the Greens and Labor will see the future. Sadly I do not expect the dinosaur led LNP will.Waste products are not ever lasting? how about 1000 years?
How many woop=woops are there in the UK- USA- EU-Japan? Sure the sun is deadly but it is not on earth-and it provides the energy the planet survives on.Sorry rob -I think your 31.5% of world power is a little exaggerated- more like 13%.
Nuclear power stations are expensive to build and maintain;besides the continuing cost of waste, damage and security controls. 
I can see a transition period of the continuing but rapidly diminshing use of fossil fules, including gas and nuclear power to a more sustainable power source-renewables.
There are regions in Europe and the US now using more renewable energy than fossil or nuclear.
The orediction is that factories- offices and homes will be able to generate their own power and share it through the grid thereby reducing the need for more power stations.
Guess you are right-we do have plenty of WoopWoop!!Does cutting off a dead branch of a diseased and rotting tree save the tree?

ASIC is only part of the probelm. The whole global financial system is rotten and ours is small cog in a big wheel- but like with climate change we should have the guts to do whatever we can to minimise the effects.
The Western economy is now a cabal of corrupt banks- big milti nationals compliant Governments.
With its removal of what little consumer prpetction there was, its secret invitation  for yet more what have been found to be fraudulent overseas banks to come  into the country-and its refusal to hold A Royal Commission this Government is showing itself to be more ecompluant than most.

That fact that is was so quick to order Royal Commissions into pinkl bats and the unions but refuses to hold one into the most corrupt of industries shows just how politically motivated and deceitful it is in everthting is says or does.
ASIC is a failed regulator of a failed frree market ideology which has corrupted the free enterprise system.
Lopping it off will help but the system will go on ripping and rorting- change the mind set and you may have a chance.Honesty and integrity flew out of the window with free market economics  Rosie A.
The LNP dogma is- Australia is open for business- at any price-even it it means the loss of our sovereign borders.I agree IEH- the huge mistake Keating did was not to consider, plan and introduce counter policies of and for the downsides of globalasition and privatisation- he made the same mistake Greenspan did- trusted the 'market' to self regulate.

Your excellent post covers the rest. Well said!!In the least Clive may cause the two major parties (who don't want any one else to play in their sand pit) to act in a more bipartisan way.  As to whether Clive leads good decision making by Govt or makes it occur due to his balance of power it does not matter to me.  He get my vote because he, either by accident, design or tom foolery, may make the two major parties to improve their behaviour as it relates to good bipartisan governance.How can you solve a problem if you do not know what it is? How can you find out what it is if you do not talk about it?'The bottom 90% in the USA have seen their income decline to below 1990 levels"
While ours have done a lot better-true BUT the cost of lving in the US is so much lower than ours-for instance -rents are half ours.
AND their level of household debt as a % of debt to disposable income is 50% less than our 158%.
Both rose from 50-60% in the 1990s -before the GOP in the US and the LNP here got us caught up in  the debt driven consumption-economy of US led financial capitalism.

The main difference is Americans did not have our ethos of mateship and fair go. They were and still are hooked on "the individual" which is great-UNTIL like capitalism it is corrupted by greed to become ruthless individualism.

Amercians are beginning to think their system may not be the best for the 21st century after all - we on the other hand have a Government which is living in the 19th century of kings-queens-knights-dames and what they would see as 'natural inequality".
They really are a SICK mob.
"About the only people dealing with economics who seem oblivious to concerns of inrquality are those in our Govermment" says Greg.

Very true but i do not hear Bill Shorten or the ALP coming out with any possible solutions-like abolishing all tax avoidance schemes and cutting corporate welfare.Hi Keith;
There may not be a LOT of differenes between us-Americans and other humans but there are some subtle and very important differences in mind sets.
I highlighted some of these in my post.

As for "waiting for all else to fail" there are many like Jeremy Rivkin- author of 'The Third Industrial Revolution" 
There are nations moving towards-using and sharing the benefits of the ongoing and radidly advances in communications-biological-medical-renewable energy-nano and other technologies.
We are not. 

Whether our old values of the Anzac spirit were - morally superior-or not is not the question-the point is they were a good example of decent human behaviour.
Take care and contribute!!At 9.34 paulofadelaide in describing Joe Hockey's thinkins wrote that Hockey says if you can look after yourself the Government should not support you.

Well I expect all the neo cons on here are able to look after themselves-that is the message they seem to give out anyway.

That being the case i guess they will not mind if Hockey abolishes family trusts- negative gearing- super tax benefits and all middle and higher class and corporate welfare- seeing as this lot is so capable of looking after itself.
They can build their own roads-hospitals- schools snd run their own serrvices too.

Mayber they can all follow Ayn Rand into her world -and end up on welfare just like she did@ Other Rob- I take it you use negative gearing- do you also have a family trust?

Agree high income earners who are employees on PAYG do pay high tax-they do not have the opportunity of using family trusts etc unless they can incorporate.
I know I was a high income earner- I ran my own business employing up to 25 preople and never used a family trust or negative gearing. I felt it was unfair for me to do so and like Warren Buffet pay less tax than my secretary.

I am now a self funded retiree-however because of low interest rates and the  financial crroks inspired GFC that may not be for much longer.
I am just stating a fact-not complaining-
Since  I retired I have had the best years of my life doing the things I love like travel and spending time with grandkids.
BTW you did NOT build my home and whats this b/s about you allowing me to use the assets I paid for over 50 years of damn hard work.If you have used tax avoidance schemes you are rationalising and deceiving yourself.

Tax avoidance schemes are legal and fair enough but please be honest about it- they provide an advantage not available to all and that is NOT FAIR!!

Oh come on namesake- you know as well as I do that family trusts are used to minimise tax. Take a simple example- a tradie making $100K a year splits that income with his golf playing and socialisng wife- they end up paying some 30% less tax than if it was taxed as his own income.
Sure undistributed profits are taxed at 46.5 % but most is distributed.
And yes there are high income earners taking advantage of negative gearing AND reducing their tax- an advantage not available ot other income earners- and you do not see the unfairness in that- is your second name Hockey?

Do you really believe that ther would be no apartment and other biulding without negative gearing?"There is a general awakening to the fact that debt is a problem"
But obviously not among the LNP and its rusted ons. The penny has not yet dropped that the debt which is a problem is private debt.
Household debt grew by 300% under the last LNP Government- its % to disposable income went from 48% in 1996 to 156% in 2007.
That debt funded the LNP debt driven economy and it so called surplus.Now how in the hell do you expect the economy to grow without a wages explosion or MORE debt. 
It aint going to happen- you had better pray that we do not get a housing bubble burst.
However your lot may yet achieve your objective of selling off all of that is within our borders to the Chinese-Wall Street or both and turn us into complete slavery.   
As Ghandi said -if you show allegiance to an evil you partake in that evil and to me ruthless individualism of the free market economic is evil as BTW is the corruption of any system.'Russia's image of itself as a historical player on the world stage must be taken seriously. This requiries less lecturing and more dialogue.less sentiment and more recognition that Russia's interests are not always congruent with ours"

Tony Abbott and Bill Shrorten please take note and while you are at it please consider:
1. Russia's historical ethnic;economic and religious ties with Crimea and East Ukraine.
2. The West's hypocrisy in accusing it of 'intervention" when it intervenes everywhe-including Ukraine-remember Ambassador Nolan and the breaking of the Feb 2014 agreement.
I have a sneaking suspicion that all this has to do  the failure of Free Market ideology in the West- the problem facing its economies and the on going ambitions of US and other  'elite" to dominate the world.
Med gas reserves may also be part of the reason for the 'bullying 'strategy.

But the risk is a global tragedy- while there is nothing like a few hundred thousand or millions of deaths and wide spread destruction to stimulate economic growth-particularly in a Western world saddled with unsutainable Private and sovereign debt; the aftermath will destroy all of us.Yesterday we had an article by Jonathan Green on our political dysfunction-that article quoted Paul Kelly on Australa's relative decline. On Wednesday Greg Canavan wrote about rhe Day Australia Fell and today we have Barrie writing about the see saw between budgets and security.
What have we become? Greg Canavan said his mind boggles as how clueless politicians are. He went on to say that politics in the West has descended to such a state that the people running the show are completely out of their depth, War and economic vulnerability are the result.
On the economy our great leaders are trying to solve the problem they created with the same thinking they used when they created it.
on the security threat posed by IS- just think back to last year when Syria's Assad was enemy number one. The West (and Israel( were afraid of an alliance between Syria-Iraq and Iran which would upset the regions' dominant power,Saudi Arabia. So the West armed the 'rebels' many of which were members of ISIS-now IS. 
In Iraq the West destroyed Sadam and his military- then it rearmed the 'new' dysfunctional Iraq. So dysfunctional it is that it could not hold back a rabble army funded by -wait for it- Saudi Arabia- and lost muuch of its US taxpayer funded military hardware to IS.

Now our dear leader is waiting for the 'order" from the US to go in help destroy the rabble army and the captured equiptment-under pretext of "national security".
That 'intervention" will not stop the recruitment of one possible jihadists- but it could well add a few.
Same with Ukraine. Greg is right- they are absolutely clueless.
Buget-security- both part of the same circle of political manaouvering.Nein,

The threat will develop further if we do not stop it now. If they could be here tomorrow they would be.  It would take a mere handful of well trained operatives to scar this country for generations. I don't say these things to scare anyone. I simply believe there are people who would harm us because we do hold the western values that they claim to be 'all that is wrong and evil' in the world.

We live in a 'utopian bubble' down 'here as you have well pointed out. We by and large ignore the problems of the world because we are geographically blessed with no shared borders. Tell me when does sticking your head in the sand ever solve a problem? This ISIL situation is not like a bottle of wine that will get better with age. It is a cancer that is eroding the fabric of peaceful societies across the globe. It divides us ideally and then grows in strength as it and moves into the gap while we sit and debate.


Protecting the oil is a worthy task for all involved.

Consider that the destruction  of those assets would cost the lives of the workers if those instalations were destroyed. It would disrupt the local economy when it puts people out of work aswell.Who benefits from the destruction of those assets? Nobody does! So maybe America has some vested interest in protecting them and so what! It's mutually beneficial and that can't be a bad thing.There is no point in trying to tell those with a 1950 mentality that this is not 1970. 
There is no point in telling those who created the "budget emergency" they say we now have that wages growth is NOT the problem.
Let them find out for themselves that the chickens of the debt driven economies they presided over from 1997 to 2014 are now coming home to roost.

Let the deluded find out that there will be NO 'growth" without increased wages or increased private/government debt or a combination of all three.

Let them find out the reality of the Ponzi economy they created- let them watch as US banks holding trillions of QE money move in to buy our distressed assets- the WA Premier has just announced asset sales.

The problem is their ';finding out: will come at the expense of Australians as they see they are led like lambs to  coporate slavery.
But only until the populace stirs-then watch them call out the militarised police and private security forces in a cain attempt to maintain priviliged positions.
Such is the history and the future of the deluded.Years ago I was involved with a group which had a small regional airline in its stable of companies.
It was losing money fast- when we did an audit we found the manager was increasing capacity- increasing the number of flights and revenue BUT the Direct Operating Cost of just about every flight was greate than the revenue it generated.
Some of us tried to tell the Board that buying sales was not profitable but the Board loved the idea of owning an airlne. It nearly sent the group broke-until they sacked the manager.

Think the same should happen to Joyce.There is no way this lying deceitful Government can talk its way out of the dysfunctional economy it helped to create. For that matter neither can the ALP- unless they face up to reality.

The reality is that the GFC (note global)  was created by as Satyajit Das says in "estreme Money" the 'crafting of a colossal worldwide financial machine that makes a few individuals staggeringly rich and sacricises everyonbe else at its altar of risk: and debt.
The world is awash with debt- but the focus- as in the article- is on sovereign debt whereas the real budget emergency is private debt.
Furthermore US banks are choc a block full of QE cash-ready to pounce on our distressed assets when-not if- we have a housing meltdown.
The other reality is that the world is rapidly moving to zero cost production-the othere day I heard of a company in Vic. which robotised and reduced its worforce from 26 to just TWO.
So the medium to long term policy of increasing the retirement age is just plain b/s-there will not be the jobs for the young let alone the old.
Until the realities are acknlowledged and we move to new financial- economic-societal systems matters will get worse.

We are governed by a bunch of clowns who are way out of their debth with not one original thought among the lot of them.Read Richard Buckminster Fuller for some original thought.
Greg- I would love you tp produce a chart showing how much economic "growth: is required to deleverage sovereign and private debt- what finite resources that will use and the effects on our planet of that useage.Apologies to the picky for the spelling mistakes- my old eyes are not as good as they used to be-thats what MD does.Seems Bill Shorten is one who is ready to join Tony's team.
Bill has expresed his gravest reservations of welcoming anyone to Australia linked to the shooting dwon of MH17.
Well- that must include every other so called world leader for all are "linked".

As US Senator Paul said -if it were not for US inspired regime change-and the reneging by the EU-US and the Ukrainian right of the February 2014 agreement MH 17 would have made it home safely.
It was the breaking of that agreement which made Crimeans and East Ukrainiins fell disenfranchised and led to the loss of Crimea and the civi war.

If Bill wants to be relevant he may do better to be a peacemaker and suggest free elections in East Ukraine.He may also think about thanking those separitists who recovered the dead and who are now facing the death of their own at the hands of US supplied arms.The stimulus may have been political but it was also economically sound- as many an economic instititution including the OECD and IMF attested.
However Swan is just as guilty of ignoring and hiding the truth as is Chris Berg and just about every politician and financial commentator.
Chris says " The memo was prepared just before the September collapse of Lehmann Brothers turned an American housing crisis into a global financial one"

What a load of deliberate twaddle meant to hide  the failure of the "free market" idealogy of the IPA and seemingly both the Government and the ALP.
To quote the Institute for Dynamic Economic Analysis " the fundamental cause of the economc and financial crisis that began in late 2007 was lending by the finance sector that primarily finance spceulcation rather than investment/The PRIVATE debt bubble this caused is unprecedented. Its unwielding now is the primary cause of the sustained slump in economic growth... growth in soverteign debt is a symptom of this underlying crisis, NOT the cause.... the current political obsession with reducing sovereign debt will exacerbate the root problem of private sector deleveraging'.

We can't solve problems by using the same kind of thinking we used when we created them" 
We need a new mind set not that of the IPA to reach a solution.Richards was booed because prejudiced fans didn't like Nissans. Rosberg was booed because of his behaviour on the track. Quite different situations, I reckon.One sentence in the article intrigued me-'The Islamic State now receives billions of dollars in oil revenues daily"
Where from and from who? I think many of us would like to know the answer- if it is indeed right.
As to the rest of he article its much like the utteranced of our PM- says nothing of substance.
Of all the 'intereventions" of the West since the end of WW2 the only one two I think were right and achieved their objective was Korea and Kosovo.
All the others like Chile- El Salvador- Argentina- Vetnam-Cuba- Syria- iraq0 Lebanon- Iran-Libya- Ukraine-Egypt were failures unless of course the objective in the ME was to weaken Israel's potential enemies but that too has cost too much and is leading to yet more global radicalisation."Cormann called on political commentators to take a chill pill"

Is this the same man who was hpyer ventillating over the 'budget emergency" just a few weeks back?
He may as well be on the chill pill for all the good he and his cigar puffing mate Hockey do.
Cormann has the smug-self satisfied look of the deluded.

He should know that in the long run it will make not one iota of difference what poor old Clive and his band of irrational dumb heads do-niether will his own- his treasurer's and his Leader's nonsensical slogans-why not even Team Australia can stop from scoring own goals.
The action is happening across the Pacific and its not pretty. We have the crooks of Wall Street and friends with coffers full of QE cash getting ready to do the short of all time with a Ponzi recovery.
However the populace is beginning to stir and not even the instigators of the GFC know where it will end.
But crafty old CLive is alughing all the way to the bank- the repeal of the Carbon Tax has saved him millions and will cost us much.So it seems that like most Americans and most in the Western world Australians now think we are heading in the wrong direction.
Seems many are now agreeing with Einstein that 'we can't solve problems  using the same kind of thinking we used when we created them"
But where is the ;right; direction? Hopefully we are seeing the beginning of 21st century thinking-where the coming zero sum production costs will see the benifits of emerging and merging technologies shared much more equitably.
If an oldie like me can see the promise of the 21st century and the need to take the plutocracy currently ruling us out of the equation there now seems hope that many youngters are beginning to see it too.'There is a need for political leadership"

I would say there is a need for leadership period. Tax is only one factor in the complex world we live in which seems to exceed our capacity to comprehind it.
So we resort to simplifications-generalizations-dichtomies-  "Team Australia" and Tax commissions.
Its as if the cart has run away with the horse-the "economy" has become sacrosant and run away with society.

You can form Tax and as many other Commissions as you like but unless the root casues are addressed ad hoc 'Hockey" solutions will do absolutely nothing.
And the root causes at present are debt and greed. By debt I mean private-household and corporate as well as sovereign debt.
Ever since 1970 we have had increasing greed driven economies driven by the crooks of Wall Street and friends and funded by debt -that has led to the gross inequalities we see today.

Where is the ONE leader saying it as it is- instead we have them putting out distractions and smoke screens- many of which have dire consequences for mliions of people- as in Iraq-Syria- Ukraine and a growing threat of expanded war.
Seeing the amount of printed QE cash currently held by Wall Street ad friends one could be excused for thinking it is all a part of a dastardly plan.

I heard Julie Bishop on AM this morning talking about the economy. She spoke  a lot and said absolutely nothing.
She repeated the old LNP line of Labor's debt and the need to "fix" the budget but did not come up with one original idea. She ignored the level of household debt.
She said the Ming Tax is costing a lot to administer and does not raise anywhere near the amount it was supposed to.But it DOES raise more that it costs. So why not "fix: it so that it rasies more rather than dump it?
She also said it makes our mining industry uncompetitive- yet BHP-Rio and others are reporting record profits.
MSM is lauding her efforts in starring down Putin= oh yes- the man is shaking in his boots- and has 80% approval rating among Russians to prove it.

If she and the Government had any decency they would acknowledge that it was the REBELS who recovered so many of the bodies and personal effects-the same rebels who are now figthing for their lives and homes.
What she should have done is expressed her and OUR thanks to the rebels for the recovery-asked them to  keep up the humanity and allow further recovery and encourage them to seek peace with Kiev- as well as suggesting the same to Kiev- possbily considering holding free elections the East Ukraine so that the people can decide. However seeing as her leader thinks Scots are not for justice and freedom I guess that solution is not on.
What a hopeless bunch we have trying to be "adult".Over the weekend I heard a report to the effect that WA power companies are feeling the pinch because they have too much capacity.
A few weeks ago i heard an economist say that Government guarantees to power companies for a 10% return on their "investment" in poles and wires had more to do with increases in power prices than the Carbon Tax.
When I hear such reports - when I see the number of househholda switching to renewable energy-when I hear the problems the coal industry is having funding new projects-when I hear China is cutting down on the use of coal- when I hear Naomi Orestes speak of the Merchants of Doubt and the end of Western Civilisation and when I hear Jeremy Rivkin speak of the coming Third Industrial Revolution with the merging of renewable, communications and nano technologies -I am reminded of the words of Franz Fanon- that those who hold a core belief that is very strong as do the deniers-be they investors, employees, have other vested interests are just plain skeptics and who ignore or deny anything that does not fit with their core belief suffer from cognitive dissonance.
Much, if not all, of Abbott's talk on anything often becomes undone.
Take this G20 "communique" and the "Brisbane Action Plan'. Between 2003 and 2007 the global economy grew by 3.8%. 4.9%, 4.7%. 5.3% and 5.3% respectively. Yet we are in a mess with growing inequality and world awash with debt, much of it private.
In Australia alone household debt as a ration of disposable income has risen from 48% in 1996 to 158% in 2013. 

The communique and the action plan came out with the same old, same old parameters of 'stimulating investment, funding for SMEs, certainty, reducing regulation, infrastructure, et all which got us where we are now.
In all of the Abbott/ Hockey rants of the past few weeks leading up to the G20 and the G20 itself the much feared ."budget emergency" was completely forgotten.

Not ONE of the world leaders mentioned DEBT- not one mentioned inequality and not one mentioned the millions of refugees rotting in refugee  camps in Jordan and around the world. 
Not one mentioned the thousand of kids being blown up or starving because  of THEIR geo political/economic games.  

Joe Hockey came out with "the days of massive Government spending are over"- so how do you build the 'infrastructure"? how do you "grow" the economy if people's disposable income is falling? 
The PM says Richard Goyder told them there are trillions sitting in banks and corporations waiting to be unleashed. Yes, much if it is QE cash sitting in banks and hedge funds-waiting to 'speculate" or as 'vulture: funds  not to invest.

I am afraid the man who not so very long ago said climate change was crap has deliveed a G20 full of the stuff.Hey spud- did I hear you complain when the ABC was so focused on Gillard? When every night the news was about her alleged wrong doing or incompetence? When either Chirs Uhlmann or Leigh Sales gave a Labor Minister a hard time and allowed the opposition to hurl brick bats a the then Government.
In comparison the ABC is treating the current Government with kid gloves.
Abbot is getting what he deserves,I know a very staunch Greens party member  at our Yacht Club who drives a Peugeot with anti nuclear and anti mining  stickers all over the hatch window he also has a French manufactured yacht .
 I just love to reminding  him that both these products are produced with nuclear power and petro chemicals.
These inner city Green hypocrites and their fellow travelers have no idea and should keep out of any decision making in government.I saw the GFC tsunami coming and dumped all mine in early 2007- the portfolio I had then, which included Rio BHP- WBE etc  is still 45% down on what is was just prior to the GFC.

The consequences of US money printing is that their  and other global banks-hedge funds-big corporations  et al are all flush with  vulture funds read to pounce on distressed assets-victims of another financial capitalist  engineered 'recession".I hate to upset the apple cart of all this interesting talk about black holes, but a lady physicist at one of the US universities has just published a paper proving black holes don't exist! Apparently they can't form. Read about it at physics news about a month ago :)$53M for a political witch hunt which yielded so few witches or warlocks?
And this by a Government which claims to be 'financially responsible"?
Maybe we should  be having a RC into Government.

The truth is corruption in this country is endemic. When you have a society drunk on the kool aid of the pursuit of wealth and not doing that is right -you are bound to have corruption in unions- business- finance-politics, down to the individual and tradies  agreeing on 'cash jobs'.

The head of ASIC recently said Australia is a paradise for corporate crooks. Any proper analysis of the ASX will prove that. Do some research -look up the ones who have been delisted and see how much money they went through and the reason for their delisting. 
The cases of CBA- Mac- financial advisers are bit a tip of the iceberg.
If this LNP Government had any sense of decency at all it would call a RC into the whole finance industry.  But  of course it will not-because if it does it will bring the industry down and with it  all of its  mates and the whole damn rotten system.She may well have a belief in her own victimhood-and it may well be justified. Rushing off to judgment without knowing and considering the evidence is the height of arrogance.

As for exacting revenge on authority- it is just what is needed at times. I wish some more 'extraction" is done on those responsible for the ME butchery- on all sides and for those financial, political and social crooks who are in 'authority'. 

You may be happy to be one of the mind manipulated Aldous Huxley wrote about but not  I.
I may not like everything she says or does but I admire her courage in saying it as she sees it.
I hope that one day she will see Clive for what he is- leave him and take the others with her.
BTW-if they are good enough to "die for the country" they are good enough to be well paid-very well paid.Sorry Geoff -you are a product of selective analysis and hereditary prejudices. You are  also a product of 'free market forces'"- as we all are. 
The 1973/75 recession was a period of of economic stagnation on much of the Western world during the 1970s- putting an end to the general post WW@ economic boom. There was high unemployment-high inflation and high interest rates= Wikipedia.
UK inflation - 24.2%
Oil price increase -nearly 70% -remember the engineered oil crisis?
US unemployment 9.7&amp;%-interest rate 17,5 % .

Causes- housing boom - credit boom -oil crisis. 
Fast forward to 2007 and the GFC.

How do you think young households will manage in the next crash after under the Howard Government their ratio of debt to disposable income rose from  48% to 158%?

Whitlam was a visionary who did not allow economic engineering to stop his reforms.That was an excellent speech Noel-full of passion. honesty and FACT. 
Thank you- you have gone some way toward silencing the meanness of those who do not understand the depth of  his reforms and what you are saying.Sounds very much like we are in a State of  'Double Government ".
The 19th  century scholar of the English Constitution Walter Bagehot came up with the term to describe the power which lay behind and directed the ;legislature.

Michael Glennon author of "Double Government: wrote 
"the public believes that constitutionally-established institutions control national security  policy, but that view is mistaken. Judicial review is negligible, congressional (parliamentary) review is dysfunctional and Presidential (Ministerial ) control is nominal. Absent a more informed and engaged electorate  and you have 'double Government.
As applied to the US - U.S national Security policy is by the network of executive officials who manage the Departments and Agencies responsible for protecting U.S National Security and who responding to structural incentives embedded in U.S political system operate largely removed from public view and from constitutional constraints"

As with everything else to do with this Government we seem to be following the U.S 'all the way:- to the point where as Michael Glennon says it matters not who you vote for-the other unelected half of the double Government runs the show.

It is certainly worrying that a Government which is supposed to represent the true Liberal values of parliamentary democracy should be outsourcing Government to police and security forces.
It is surprising that its own supporters are allowing it.Michael  J Glennon has hit the nail on the head as to why voting in the US mid term elections ( the most expensive ever) is inconsequential.
Michael  challenges the myth that US Security and other policy is still forged by America's elected representatives. Their roles have become largely illusory. Presidential control is nominal, congressional oversight is dysfunctional and judicial review is negligible.
The real power lies with vested interest and their influence on the several hundred managers of the military, intelligence. diplomatic, law enforcement and financial agencies.     
A cabal of collusion between bankers. the military/industrial complex and compliant Governments.

As Michael  says- 'reform efforts face daunting obstacles (witness Obama's record on reform) .Remedies within this new system of "double government" require Governments and institutions to exercise the vey power they lack. Meanwhile reform initiatives  from without confront the same pervasive political ignorance within the polity that has given rise to this duality'
Michael sounds a powerful warning about the need to resolve this dilemma- and the mortal threat posed to accountability democracy and personal freedom if double Government persists.

The recent draconian changes to our security laws are a sure sign of our 'double Government' and the threat to OUR democracy.I think the jig is up on the fallacy that those we elect run the country.
As Michael Glennon writes in 'Security and Double Government" agencies such as the Pentagon- Home land Security- the CIA - the Federal reserve aided by vested interests run the US Government.
Seems ASIO-the AFP-the reserve Bank and other agencies are running ours.
We are heading down the same path as the basket case that is the USA. 
How much of this metadata will be available to foreign entities seeking to sue us and our Government over perceived breaches to trade agreements -like the proposed TPP?

The Australian electorate is only slightly more aware than the US electorate- both are being methodically enslaved.
Aldous Huxley is being  proven right.;That's not to say markets are perfect. They're not. They are often distorted by irrational behaviour of human and the interference of governments"

I think markets are distorted more often than not and by the irrational behaviour of Governments as well as humans.

No rational Government or society would engage in the debt driven consumption/economy of the Howard era which saw our household debt treble to be among the highest in the world.
No rational Government or society would stand idly by seeing inequality grow exponentially and still  keep on doing the same things which caused the problem in the first place.  

The Government is being just as irrational with its Direct Action Policy. Paying polluters not to pollute is no different from paying crooks not to do crime-and will result in just as much shonky business.
Liberal economics of favouring business at any price is what led to the GFC and financial intervention from Sates on an unprecedented scale.
The PUP deal is nothing more than a  tax payer funded gift to Clive Palmer and the fossil fuel industry.

Every action can be 'rationalised' in the minds of some-even the holocaust.
Christians burnt those they deemed heretics because they "rationalised: they were evil; IS beheads those they judge as infidels  for the same reason.
 In the 'Lucifer Effect- why god people do evil things" Philip Zimbardo showed the corrosive mind set of rationalisation.

You may be right in that inequality has many causes but for me the underlying cause is that inequality drives economic progress under neo liberal economics.
Failures are built into the ideology and without that inequality the ideology cannot survive in this finite world.

I agree-the electorate has been pavlov-  trained into demand but not to pay-trained, no not trained but brainwashed into thinking there is no end to  economic/consumption growth in a finite world; even if it is debt funded.
An electorate but more so those for whom 'enough is too little'.

As with your Howard paper millionaires the price is paid by those  dumb enough to fall for his and financial capitalism debt trap and  future generations.'By means of ever more efficient methods of mind manipulation the democracies will change their nature; the quaint old norms of elections, parliaments, Supreme Courts and all the rest will remain. The underlying substance will be  anew kind of totalitarianism. All the traditional names, all the hallowed slogans will remain exactly what they were in the good old days. Democracy and freedom will be the theme of every broadcast and editorial. Meanwhile the ruling oligarchy and its highly trained elite of soldiers, thought manufacturers and mind manipulators will quietly run the show as they see fit" Aldous Huxley.

Will those who are ridiculing Russell also ridicule Huxley? Do they not see that is just what is happening?Total tax is not the same as income tax.

For example last year I earned in the 64K

Which means I paid $12347 in income tax

which is 19.3% tax Which is not my total tax rate

Then we have medicare levy which is 1.5% or $960

Those are taxes I pay directly which comes to 20.8% of my income $13307

I also pay indirect taxes

GST
Fuel excise
Council rates (I rent but the taxes are past on to me)

and other taxes

So although my income tax rate is 19.3% my total tax paid is a lot higher through indirect taxes
Which is how someone who does not pay much income tax can Have a total tax rate in the 40% range (mine probably is not quite that high)So why the legislation or this this another example of a childish  Government gone berserk- and we though the Rudd/Gillard Government was bad.Anyone who is not 'genuinely alert to the deepening social divide and gathering dysfunction that straddles it' is either delusional or just plain dumb.
And well may Murdoch speak of this but what about his tabloid press. with its inflated daily misanthropic garbage?  When will cease to be a gutter press and begin to show some required  deep thinking?
'Inevitable social and political upheaval to come" of course its coming- and its  inevitable0-but only because Rupert and his buddies like Abbott refuse to accept the failure of the free market ideology.
Any system based on neo liberal economics  of the survival of the fittest where 'failure" of the many is inbuilt will eventually fail.
My fear is that when the unwashed youth do rise up- the massive public and private security forces which Governments have formed over the years will be turned against them.

We are already seeing demonstrators for higher minimum wages being arrested in the great 'land of the free"- in the name of law and order of course.
The plan of financial capitalism has always been for a minority 'elite: with ever growing wealth and a subservient majority on a global scale. It does not give a damn if Australians are among the subservient, and neither it seems do our politicians.
This morning I hear the P&lt; waffle on about 'infrastructure"-more of the same crap which got us to where we are now- the man is in the 19th century.  

The hope is that the young will lead a revolt towards a more collaborative society where the benefits of rapidly advancing technology are equitably shared.  There is a growing populism of looking after the interest of people rather than the elite. Smart ethical business is following suit.

The obstacle is the mind set of the neo cons-who will remain delusional and in denial as they sink in the morass they created.
 

There is no better example of just how impoverished our political media is than the coverage of Bill Shorten's speech to the Australian Christian Lobby.
The coverage was all about his support for gay  marriage- Yes he did say that he cannot stay silent when he sees people hiding behind the bible to insult and demonise people bases on who they love- and good for him.

But he also had a lot to say about compassion -economic empowerment- homelessness- poverty-prosperity-indigenous recognition- Iraq and  humanitarian response.
Among a few pearlers I liked his ' growth and equality go together- equality is not the child of growth - it is the twin of growth"
I thought it was a very good speech which deserves more media coverage and a basis for discussion of what kind of an  Australia we want.
More substance and less politics please.In January 2014 an article in the Journal of Economic Methodology had this to say about our fallibility. 
'The complexity of the world in which we live exceeds our capacity to comprehend  it. Confronted by a reality of extreme complexity, we are obliged to resort to various methods of simplifications. .generalisations, .dichotomies, metaphors, decision rules and moral precepts"
The Australian mind set way back in 1973 was even less 'globally" aware than what it is today.
Neither the then Whitlam Government or the Opposition had any clue of what the US Federal Reserve and US big money was up to.
Having done away with the gold standard the US was determined to engineer a financial capitalist t debt trap.
The US had just advanced Israel over $2b to help it with the Yom Kippur war- the 1973 oil crisis was a direct result of that. The US devalued the US dollar -raised interest rates and created a part global recession.
Besides having an undisciplined cabinet Whitlam failed to comprehend what the US Fed was doing- neither did Fraser. Fraser took advantage of the chaos- resorted to simplification, generalisation and a moral concept or two and Australia fell for it.
John Stone was and I guess still is a fanatical economic rationalist and as with all idiots does not have the intelligence to wonder of he could ever be wrong.
As one who has had first hand experience of the financial and corporate sectors I heartily agree with the head of ASIC when he says Australia is a paradise for corporate crooks.

No register will fix that- not even a heavenly one with plenary indulgences will change a rotten system.

I doubt if a RC would either- how many have we had over the year?s- has anything  changed?- in fact with neo Liberal free market economics -where profit at any price is the only game in town-its got worse.
But a RC into the whole financial/ corporate sector, not just financial advisers, will expose just how endemic and systematic the crookedness is.
Which of course is what the Government and the big end of town is dead scared of.Seeing as Lachlan is the head honcho of one of the greatest Abusers of press freedom in the way ts manipulates the news to suit its agenda-not forgetting 'hacking- its a bit rich for him to complain.  
But he does have a point- even though he is showing the same double/triple standards as that of Government.

New Corp was instrumental in the Government calling a RC into the insulation debacle- despite numerous inquiries held previously. Did New Corp call for a RC into the CBA  and other corporate scandals? And that despite the head of ASIC saying Australia is a paradise for corporate crooks.
Did Lachlan take Abbott to task for ignoring the Senate's call for a RC and for using such a lame excuse as saying there have been enough inquiries?
 
I am all for freedom and transparency but not the selective kind and certainly not of its abuses. '
With freedom comes the responsibility to always ;DO THE RIGHT THING:.FEAR is one of human natures main driving forces- and it has been used by villains  of all sorts from the beginning of time.

Crooks like the mafia use it to scare people into silence- religious zealots use it with the threat of eternal damnation- parents  use with the threat of a belting- racists use with the threat of race contamination -rednecks use it with the threat of an asylum seeker 'invasion"- bosses use it with the threat of loss of jobs- dick heads like those in IS use it to big nose themselves-bullies use it to make them feel powerful- Governments use it -all of the time to help spin their agendas- journos use it to bolster their feelings of self importance- but above all neo Liberal economics use it by making it clear there are severe consequences for 'failure" -i.e becoming a "loser'.
Losing one self of meaning is the worst fear of all.

However in the context of the fear of IS- it is used to generate fear of terrorist attack but the more insidious reason is to hide the truth- that truth is that the IS threat is a direct result of what WE and our friend's did or did not do in the ME.
The less insidious reason is to boost the stocks of politicians who tell us how well they are protecting us.

Well - Tony Abbott can peddle fear as much as he likes; it will not change my opinion of him as a 19th century  imbecile or my opinion of IS as dick heads who will in no way chose the way I live.
There is nothing to fear in heaven  or earth as much as  fear itself-or a politician .'The Government's attempts to dress up its 20% target is indefensible"
As are  of all its other attempts to dress up its polices on the budget- health- education- civil rights- industrial relations and every aspect of our lives.
It is the most dishonest-two timing- ideological Government in our history- but it is also the most crafty- as are all crooks.

It is a Government determined that its neo liberal economics ideology will prevail- irrespective of how much inequality and environmental destruction it creates.
As with any of its  dud and crooked corporation mates - its focus is on the short term- short term electoral value as in short term shareholder value- ie share price maintenance.
Of course big money funds its campaigns- the pay back is killing off RET, competition and regulation.

The head of ASIS said Australia is a paradise for corporate- well it is also a paradise for political and union crooks- the crooks run the country.
Hr Hewson I sure hope Shorten does show some guts- and does stand up to this awful Government- but first he must ensure that all the unions and all his ALP member  damn well DO THE RIGHT THING!! They can begin to side with the people instead of the elite.In the haste to blame the Abbott government for the job losses all you Abbott haters should have done a bit of homework . The company building the wind towers has sacked those workers because they have switched some of their manufacturing to importing .
For the same reasons why we do not have a motor industry because manufacturing costs in Australia are no longer competitive. Gillard and Rudd  were the culprits in handing industrial relations back to Shortens mates in the unions.It is not just wages alone destroying our industries the restrictive work practices, inflexible rosters, penalty rates and all the production restricting regulation all add up to the continuing decline of manufacturing jobs in Australia.Damn "OUR" ABC -for publishing articles  by Paula Matheson-Chris Berg and a host of other LNP apologists with their unbalanced extreme right agendas.
But in fact I am glad it does and that it accepts comments from neo cons-it reinforces my beliefs.It's time we brought the age of megalomania to a close".

I'm with you BJA- but who else is? Reading so many of the coal head comments on here I think we may have a problem-but then the 'herd" refused to believe the world was not flat when science was proving it certainly was not.

But there is hope. The following is from an email I got from an investment publication- not know for its 'leftist" opinions.

'There isn't just one thing  wrong with America or the world. Instead what we are witnessing is a turning of generation that is exposing- and will ultimately solve -a great number of problems that have been building up for years. The tumultuous  and shocking revelations of the last years expose a system that is fundamentally and foundationally weak.
To believe or argue otherwise is outright denial!!
There are growing trends of rising populism- siding with the people instead of the elite and a return to  simply -doing the right thing" rather than profit at any price.The left should stop rewriting history by contributing decisions made by previous governments to Gough Whitlams .
Menzies made university courses as well supported accommodation  free to all students who achieved good results in their schooling. Whitlam just made it free to all no matter their academic results.The White Australia policy was abolished by Harold Holts government.The troop withdrawal was almost complete when Gough came to office. 
I do give credit in calling for Australia to maintain the rage after his sacking .We did and threw him out of office at the subsequent election and I thank  him for that.
Mathias is dead right and  he was not denigrating women in calling Shorten Girlieman .
What is our country becoming with all this political correctness crap the term( like a Girl and like a Man) is used to describe performance in many spheres in everyday life. Should we just abandon all reference to boys, girls, men and women all together.

 Shorten is a gutless unprincipled  lightweight who has been able to claw his deceitful way to his present position  by betraying his former leaders .I could only read the first two paragraphs of this article to conclude that if the picture of the Aussie mind set that Paula draws is correct then we have indeed become a nation  of rednecks,
There were no greater advocates of 'National Interest and Security"than Hitler and Stalin.
We can afford $500M to send fighters to Iraq to drop bombs but cannot afford more than a mealey $18m to help fight Ebola?

We can follow the Yanks and Brits to war in a flash but not to save lives? Are you sayihg that while the Yanks and the Brits are great mates in war-and will help treat our wounded they are not suh great friends when it comes to a real humanitarian mission and will refuse to treat/evacuate our possibly infecyted medicos?
Let me hear THEM say that and if they really are saying that PULL our planes and troopsout of Iraq now.
As for Labor- damn the politics- time Labor got back to the Golden Rule - do the right thing!!'Limited capability" my ass. How many wounded did our 'allies" treat during the Iraq and Afghan war? Thousands-including many of our own.
We have unlimited capability for war-death and destruction  but not for life 
Your arguement that we entered the Iraq conflict because it is deemed to be on OUR interest supports my comment that according to Paula and it seems you- we are indeed a nation of rednecks,Further to my earlier post we did have a Chinese speaking PM in RUDD and how did that go.If you think that Australia can influence foreign governments to make changes to their economies which may be against their populations interest you are living in a different world than me.Eric- I am sure your kids are not evil-neither were/are the traders of Wall Street which sent the world to the brink if financial collapse.
Neither were the dealers- wheelers and shakers in the corpoorate world I once worked for-the excesses of which gave us the 1987 share crash.
Neither were the smart cookies who manouvered a friend out of a development he worked so long and hard on. It broke his heart and his spririt to the point he blew his brains out.
They did not mean him any harm-they were not evil- it was business.
Great article Tim.

The other day I received an email from an investment outfit not known for its "left" leanings.
In part the email dealt with what it considers wrong with America and the world including falling wages and incomes, stagnant wealth;falling labor participation and wage productivity disconnect. 

It said that the tumultuous and shocking events of the past few years exposed a system that is fundamentally and foundationallyy weak.
These are symptoms of a bigger disease-they also serve as a wake up call= a warning shot to the masses.
It made the following predictions for the coming year/s.
1. Rising populism- Siding with the people instead of the elite.
2. The Working poor. Expect more wage debate and strikes ahead, and not just of unskilled workers,
3.Boomers reinvention. Boomers will have to adapt in order to survive or risk Darwinian consequences.
4. Return fo the Golden rule-whether applies to banking, spying, civil liberties, or relationships with our neiughbours.... expect doing the right things to return to prime time after a long hiatus. 

Sort of fills me with hope- particulary the last sentence.
If the ALP had any sense- it would see that IT and the Unions are doing the right thing- and side with the people-not the elite.Seems to me you KNOW what the truth but like me you want the politicians to tell it as it is.
For me the truth is that exponenatial economic growth and never ending consmption in a finite world is NOT possible -nor is the level of global PRIVATE debt sustainable.
There will not be the jobs for all who need or want them- so we hav to design new paradigmgs.
With the merging and emerging of new technologies the words of Richard Buckminster ring true.
"We must do away with the absolutely specious notion that everybody has to earn a living. It is a fact that today one in ten thousand can make a technological breaktrough capable of supprting all the rest'
Good luck with convincing the politicians and the herd to get their heads around that concept.Sophie; I hope we see more- a lot more of your work.
We; who sit in our lounges watching sanitised reports of the wars in Syria and elsewhere need to exposed to the same horrors you were. 
Maybe we could all do with a does of PTSD.

I cried when I heard of the 50 kids blown to bits by IS bombs. I imagined my 7 year old twin grand daughters among them.

Whether it is Government barrel bombs- IS suicide bombs- US missiles- Aussie bullets- FSA mortars the poor Syrian and Iraqi kids are still dead or maimed.
There is NO choice between evils.

What I would ask of you and all journos is not to simply report one incident and move onto the next story but to do some critical unbiased  analysis of the various causes of such conflicts.

Not that would of itself make much difference- I see your heart breaking article attracted just 10 responses whereas one by Jonathan Green on a dumb t/shirt attracted some 550 comments.

But- if more of you journos told it as it really is it just may shake a few more lf us out of our self  absorption.'I try not to feel too much for those that live in areas effected by extreme violence"

Why? Maybe that is why there is so much violence= because there are too many who either do not care, cannot handle man's inhumanity to man or take a perverse delight in other people's suffering.

If you do not try-you cannot change anything-which is exactly what the peepetrators want.
It takes compassion and courage to stand up to evil- even that perpetrated by my own kind.

An avalanche starts by a single pebble.

If Ghandi- JC- Mandella-Eienstein and  many of history' real heroes were so defeatist nothing will have changed.

Compassion and courage are nothing without some self sacrifice- be it life,time-money or PTSD.In amongst all the 'shirt fronting: I would suggest we do not jump to conslusions but wait for the Dutch to present their final report.
I find it curious that the rebels who supposedly shot down the plane were the ones who recovered the bodies and the black boxes=and yet neither the PM nor the FM had the grace to thank them.

I also find it curious that we have not been told just what did the black boxes reveal nor have we been told of the exchanges between Ukrianian air traffic control and the aircraft.
Why did the Ukrainian army mount an attack on the site at the time we had investigators there?
Abbott's allegations may well prove to be right but a sensible person would withhold judgement until all of the evidence is in.
The Dutch lost more =many more people than we did but I do not hear the Dutch PM threatening to shirt front Putin. 
I have just finished watchinh Foreign Correspondent and saw how the Italians treat asylum seekers under their Mare Nostrum policy.
I saw an Italian Navy warship rescue 103 people from a inflated raft-pick up another 200 odd from a leaky boat and then transfer another 300 from a Norwegian ship which had rescued them from certain death.

In total that ship rescued over 800 that day. The Italians were so well organised with medical staff on board doing health checks- other staff gave the rescued clothes and fed them.
What impressed me most was the love- care and respect the Italians and the Norwegians showed to these  poor people.

Many of them were escaping war torn Syria and Libya- they were escaping from situations we in the West helped create.
The signs of gratitude they showed were heart warming; as were the kids.

And what do we do? we demonise them-lock the kids up behind barbed wire and heap praise on a Minister who designed the policy. There are better ways to deal with the problem- one is to take the lead  and shame the UN into doing something at the source.
Starting wars as we did in Iraq in 2003 is NOT the way. 
Coogara; it is true that in Italy there is no structural legilsation on reception conditions and no uniform reception system for asylum seekers.
However asylum seekers who lack financial resources to ensure an adequate standard of living for the health and sustenacne of themselves and their families can submit a request for assistance at a reception centre.
Under the publicly funded  SPRAR (system of protection of aslyum seekers and refugees) a network of local authorities and non profit organisations accomodate asylum seekers.refugees and other beneficiaries of of international protection.

So to suggest as you do that asylum seekers cost Italy nothing is misleading and decries the compassion and generosity of the Italians.
Have you ever asked those in detention if they would prefer to take their chances on the streets?
Unlike our Government and obviously you- we do have compassionate organisations which would help them- AS they DO in Italy.
You lot make Australia look bad- you do not need me to do it.
This article is spot on.Vi;
The words cooperate and collaborate do not rate in the world of predatory capitalism and over consumption to which our political parties seem wedded to.
However in a finite world and one subject to the danger of climate where over consumption and continuing exponential "growth"  are not sustainable those words will become synonymous with a more technologically,intellectually and spiritually  advanced world.
Its just that the Pynes=Abbotts and LNPs and ALPs of this world are so uneducated that they cannot get their heads around the "changes we really do need".Seeing as how well my 10 and 7 year old grandkids read and more importantly REASON- I hav eno problem with the curriculm.
My 7 year old grandaughter speaks to me using French words- she then asks me about France.
Open their minds- do  not close them.!!RoxyR;

I think most parents and grand parents do care. Yes, my grandkids are lucky but not only becasue we do care but becasue their teachers do too- AND because the curriculm is broad.
If neither parents,grandies or teachers cared then no curriculm would make the slightest bit of difference.
Having worked in the public service for 7 years I can tell you it  is  innefficient and packed with useless business units who don't do anything of need. There is an overiding culture of creating policy units who don't do anything at the expense of service units who actually need to provide a public service. There is a managment class of men and women who seem to spend their days increasing the layers of management and employing part timers to do the actual work. And at the same time executives who really aren't up to the job, except for hiring more an more managers to make busy work. When you work in a culture where they continually ask the proles for suggestions on making the public service better, you have to ask yourself, where is the actual leadership? What exactly are they employed to do, when they need to ask subordinates how things might or should be done?If you let off a crakcer behind the herd- the herd will take flight. Vested interests and politicians have always used fear to generate support for their ill begotten agendas. So it was with the bugdet emergency and the toxic tax.

Logic tells me that if we  insist on engaging in business which is not our own- as in a war between Muslims- we run the risk of upsetting one side or the other- it amazes me that a political party which is so against trying to pick winners in business is always so damn keen on trying to pick them in conflcts it does not understand. I think that has more to do with its mindlesselss idiotic ideology of being dead sure about every damn thing it does and never wondering if there are alternatives. 
As a result we probably are at a greater risk of terrorism than if we stayed neutral. But that risk is nowhere near as great as fear mongers would have us believe. Certainly nowhere near as great for me to lose any more of my freedom and see the likes of Wikie being jailed for telling the truth.

I prefer to fight IS with the humour of that Iraq group which is maiking fun of them rather than cower in fear and Islamphobia -which is precisely what IS wants. 
The question still remains- how come an obviously numerically superior and better equipped  army- with its own air force cannot defend its own country? Where has all the moeny the West pumped into Iraq gone? For a Government  supposedy excellent at economic management and budgets why is ours not asking the question?i agree- running to the right is not the answer'  With its 'attachment" to failed free market ideology Labor has done enough of that allready.
What it AND the unions need to do is simply become  'fair dinkum". Stop trying to emulate the shonky neo cons in spin,hype,and bastardry.
Leave the celebrity bit to the fraudsters but take on =head on- the shock jocks- news manipulators and take back the square from the fringe.
Its not just Labor which is at a watershed-its the whole democratic world-society as a whole is heading for the big drop.

'There are three classes of men,lovers of wisdom, lovers of honer and lovers of gain" Plato.
We have been ruled by the latter for far too long. Those of us in the middle have been crying out for leaders who are lovers of wisdom and honor.I submitted a post asking Benjamin a number of questions on Turkey's agenda but it seems to have been rejected. Maybe you can answer this one.
Did the Kurds live in peace under Assad? Doese Turkey not want Assad gone-why?No need for a law mate. I never believe anything MSM says anyway and only half of what the ABC says. I always do my own "fact check".
I did submit a post quoting a story from an ex journo who once worked for a Murdoch paper in the UK. He told the story of how that paper manipulated or created  the 'news".
What is the difference between USSR tyoe Pravda and New Corp when both sprout propoganda?
Why does the kettle always calls th pot black?
BTW-hands off the ABC-even thought it printed your post but not my original one. Just hope it prints this one.John: the first and best reform Labor should do is to stop the spin and  'tell it as it is".
The facts are:
Ever since the 1970s we have been going deeper and deeper into the debt trap created by debt driven economies;where the financial sector primarily finacned speculation. . 
Global debt is now at unsustainable levels.
In Australia total debt is some $4,8trillion-of which private debt is $2.2TR and household debt $1.34TR.
In 1997 household debt as a % of disposeable income was 48%-todayt its 148%.
The world's fossil energy resources are finite and cause climate change.
Growing global population will require the creation of millions of jobs on the one hand while advances in technology will reduce the requirment for jobs.

So the truth is that in no way can the global and our economy "grow" sufficiently to ensure jobs for everyone- growing consumption and repayment of all that debt.
Therefore unless we change the "system" we are heading for decades of low growth-growing inequality and social unrest.

The emerging and merging new technoligies provide an opportunity to change the system=from aggressive individualism- extreme competition- slave labor and misery for the majority to collaboration-less inequality and as Richard Buckminster Fuller would say- ;do away with the absolutely specious notion that everybody has to earn a living-when one in ten thousand of us can make technological breakthroughs capable of supporting all the rest"
Is there anyone in Labor capable of getting his or head around that notion?
I doubt it!!Love your passion Steve and of course you are right in that Labor needs a total rebuild to where its heart and soul lie.
That need is never more pressing than it is now.
We are at a crossroads of continuing down the path of excessive greed-excessive consumption -growing inequality into a world where  the top 20% are served by the remaining 80% or to change direction to a path leading to fairer-more sustainable world.
I agree; to do that Labor needs to have the guts to take on the financial capitalists who gave us the failed free market ideology.
But to get to that point Labor does need to clean up its house;dare i say "reform"Thanks Chris- this is one of your best.

'No sensible finance minister would exlude a revenue option " it seems the PM has-guess that says he is not 'sensible".
'Between the wars the reperations scheme imposed on Germany spakred the rise of Nazism" A lesson not learnt-' interventions and regime change" in the ME has sparked the rise of IS.
'The spiralling cost of the Vietnam war spelled the end of Kenney=Johnson reform program and created the setting for the rise of the conservative movement. The American fiscal crisis has in large part been caused by the $2 trillion cost of the 2003 Iraq war. We can blame that fiscal crisis for the dysfunctional nature of Washington politicics' I would go further and blame it for the the dysfunctional nature of global politics and economics. 
So- on all fronts that war was an  absolute disaster- over shadowed only by the failure of free market ideology under Greenspan.
;Those ambitious neoconservatives who sought to reshape the world after 9/11 imagined the cost of their military intervionism as a minor detail.Who could be so crude as to quibble about money when democracy and liberty was at stake". 
Thats says it all about the ineptitude and moral bankrupycy of neo conservatives.Most conspiracies are stupid and none more so than the collusion between Governments-Banks and big money.'We were prepared to spend $40odd billion in stimulus to secure greater tax receipts"?
As with the rest of the Western world the "stimulus" was to prevent the collapse of the global financial system and protect jobs-not to secure greater tax receipts.
How much did TARP and QE in the US  and UK-EU bailouts cost?

' Using either gross debt or net debt as a measure Hockey's claim of a billion a month in interest is exaggerated" Fact Check. 
You may be in the dark about the case of our involvement- well seeing as the Government cannot articulate an end game plan- so is it. 
But I am not-our involvement is an attempt at management of a crisis we helped create and as with the economy do not have the touch of genius and a lot of courage to move in the opposite direction.
How can you neo cons lies straight in bed?- you twist every damn thing.Of course we are in for a bumpy ride. That IS the plan of financial capitalism which began  with the setting of  the debt trap way back in the 1970s.
They know that ever increasing exponential growth in a finite planet is not sustainable.
They also know that their own power would diminish to zero if  we used emerging and merging new technologies to create a better fairer more collaborative and a more equitable world-they want to maintian economic and political power so they CREATE crisises .
It suits their agenda to have 75% on low incomes to serve the top 25%and they do not give a damn whether that 75% are in Asia- the US or Australia- they shift the misery from one part to the other.
Why do you think US  and other banks are are now full of QE money? Its political, economic and social engineering of the worst kind- and we are falling for it.In my very first line I said 'That IS the plan of financial capitalism"

Is it a bridge too far to equate "they" with those running 'financial capitalism"?
Maybe if I wrote in the language of my country of birth Lehan may not be so semantic- just as well I do not wear a "burka".
The fact that you seem to shoot the messenger- seems in indicate that you have no answer to the message.
But thats OK- very fwe understand the language of money anyway-which is why we get screwed so easily.AE;
There must have been many in the 1930s Germany who thought that "Nazism" was not  a person or a group of people either.
Guess they still thought that as they goose stepped toward destruction.
Behind every "ism" is a group of people often led or misled by one person. 
Is that any clearer for you?Its not so much a matter of choice but of reality. I refuse to believe that Governments, financial insitutions,economists and others did not see the GFC coming. The colossal worldwide financial machine Satyajit Das refers to in "Extreme Money" was not created by accident. I would agree the the near collapse of the global financial system was not quite what was expected- that is where the stuff comes in. But the  'too big to fail" rescue plan ensured the 'system" survived.
As for herds- well there are big herds and little herds- I am happy to be part of a herd -= as long as its is not being led over the edge.It was the neo cons who created the problem and who now refuse to acknowledge their part in it.
Debt driven consumption which saw our household debt rise from 48% of disposeable income to 158% occurred under an LNP Govenrment.
It was an LNP Government which got us caught up in the global Ponzi economy of debt- securitisation-debt driven speculation rather than investment- bank failures- CBA and other scams.
We are being set up for economic slaughter and you dumb neo cons cannot see it' and its the gultess ALP which is allowing it to happen.Rubbish- in 1996 Household debt as a 0 of disposeable icnome was 48% in 2007- after 11 years iof LNP Government it was 158%.
Interest of 15% on $30,000 is far less than  8% on $400,000. 
Deregulation led to the credit and asset binges-the GFC- growing inequality etc-etc- etc.
"I thought the market would self regulate"- I was wrong" Greenspan. 
:I thought the people running Wall Street were smarter and more ethical that they were" Tim Geitner.
A neo con con!!
For the moment Australians should be proud that they have joined in a coalition"
Like hell they should!! What- proud of the fact that they were dumb enough to join the previous coalition which was based on a lie and led to the mess which is now Iraq?
Proud of the fact that in  spite of the billions spent training and reequiping the Iraqi army it cannot defeat a mob of Islamists even though it has numerical superiority of at least 50-1?
Proud of the fact of the millions made by Corporations like Haliburton over the blood of Amercians-Brits and Iraqis?
Proud of the fact that kids are being butchered because of the idiocy of adults?
Proud of the fact that we are sending our young into danger without an end game plan- as we did in Vietnam?
Proud that our country  does not have the wisdom and courage to move in the opposite direction?
Not in my name- if you are so keen on war- you go first!!Oh- so you have not heard of the WMD lie? If you want more details read Hans Blix- Andrew Wilkie and others.Does our Macho PM feel "confronted" by a beared- helmeted- tattoed- hulk of a bikey?
Does he feel "confronted" by a hooded SWAT policeman carrying an AK47 and low slung pistols or a tough mean looking Armaguard security person with hand of gun?
Does he feel 'confronted" by a priest in full black garb with hat pulled over eyes-or a nun in full habit?

I have not ssen a burka or a nijab for ages. What a beat up- but one i have come to expect from a man with forked tongue.

I do not give a damn what the man says- its never any good anyway- If anyone wants to hide their face from me-so bloody what? I am more likely to feel "confronted" by a face I can see than one I cannot.You have to reasonably accept that the ABC is very sluggish in streamlining its workforce, just like any other publicly funded institution. I've heard a description of news stories being covered by the commercial networks via a single camera operator holding a phone so the reporter back at the studio can cover several stories at once; while the ABC brings a whole crew of reporter, camera-man and producer, with a senior reporter still sending instructions from base. When tax dollars are paying for it there is a moral obligation for the public broadcasters to be at least as efficient as the private ones.Tedd, those passages don't promote violence or hatred towards the non Christians, It says to wipe the dust off your feet and move on. It is up to God to bring about what these passages talk about. Yet all people are to stand up to persecuters of people who can't look after themselves. This isn't trying to convert or save people this is caring for the weak.All athiests have a right to believe in no God, Yet to ignore what 90+% of the world believes places you into a minority that ignore the spiritual side of all human beings. From my point of view, a sad loss indeed for athiests especially in regards to eternity.
