GDay big joe
Have the people you have witnessed "scaring' had the belief that their children have no future but to be in detention for the rest of their lives or returned to killing fields that they had escaped from ?
How would you feel if you believed that you may be sent to a country where lots of people with guns and power have said that the most sensitive part of your penis would be cut off ?Gday James
Maybe you can suggest whom were the targets of bombings in Bali ? 
My experience is that many people don't want too offend by mentioning the things they see as unacceptable by our country whilst we are in their country.Gees Zing 
Not being entitled to work and earn money to feed yourself and your family because of where you come from is being persecuted because of your race.
Not having the right to have your children educated  because of where you came from is being persecuted.
Do you believe not having the right to work and earn money to feed and educate your children cannot be seen as a genuine need to seek asylum ?
Please do some research and find that most asylum seekers in Indonesia were given short stay visa's which they have overstayed. The Gillard government obtained agreement with Indonesia for them to stop giving visa's to people from Iran because many were trying to get asylum because of the economic restrictions placed on Iran by sanctions r.e. attempts to stop development of Nuclear power. These Iranians were seen as economic refugees.
You know the problems Australia has controlling people entering illegally by sea ? Indonesia has over twice the coastline length of Australia, more people travel by boat into Indonesian ports per month than what would do the same into Australian ports in a year. Boat traffic in and around Indonesia would be 100 times more than what is seen in Australia. Gees about 250,000,000 people live on about 992 islands, imagine the difficulty trying to stop people from entering illegally? 
Most seeking asylum whom are in Indonesia  register with the UNHCR.
Sri Lankan Tamils face the same persecution in India.
Because they are not natives of India they are not excepted as members of Indian society. It is illegal for them to find work and earn enough to feed their families. Can you imagine facing a gaol sentence because you were found to be employed ?
If laws force you to rely on charity to feed yourself and your family and this looked likely to stay the same forever would you feel persecuted ?   
 Indonesia HAS NOT signed the refugee convention. India has not signed the refugee convention. Both countries have no obligations to give asylum to those entitled to asylum.
Because they have not signed the refugee convention they can lock you in detention for the rest of your life.But Coongera Indonesia and India did not agree and sign the same protocol that Australia did.
Therefore Indonesia and India can keep asylum seekers in camps under detention until they die.
I view asylum as being free to work and learn and play.
Do you think asylum is just a bed and food and nothing more?Well Realist just hope that Mayday mayday or pan pan calls are not made by people on planes asking to land in Australia which are full of asylum seekers that ask the first government official they encounter for the right to claim asylum.GDay Horrocks 
using your argument about waiting in camps is not helped by the Abbott government cutting the numbers from 20.000 to 13,000.
Your argument was supported by the Malaysian solution where those that came by boat were to be sent to Malaysia to wait in camps with the Malaysian governments agreement and those in camps were assessed in Malaysia were given asylum if found eligible.
The thing is these people believe they are deserving of asylum. Both the Rudd solution of giving asylum in PNG and the Malaysian solution gave people asylum. Turning back boats gives no one asylum from persecution. 
Please realise people if it is against the law for you to work you are being persecuted. If your visa for Australia doesn't not allow you to work you can be deported, but you can not be deported to places where you have no right to find work. Australia has obligations by the signing of the UNHCR refugee agreement we can not deport people to a place where they will be persecuted with laws that say visa or no they cant obtain work.But rusty it is not illegal to ask for asylum.
Our obligation is to asset their claims fully. Our laws allow them to find out the reason/s they have not be assessed as needing asylum and give them the opportunity to argue their case. If their arguments are still not excepted they are deported. The length of time spent in the courts is dependant on how strong their arguments are.
Destroying their documentation increases the time they are kept in detention. It is things like detention they are trying to escape from. They are seeking lives free of persecution like being kept in detention.GDay gbe
Yes some have and they forget to factor in how our countries trading partners were fairing with their economies at the time too.
I do remember the last recession experienced in Australia occurred after a period that saw the best figures for decades in regards to GDP growth also the best productivity figures.
I also remember before the Keating government was voted out of office interest rates were on a down trend so was inflation and the unemployment figures.
I remember accolades being heaped on the Howard government (please  read the hansard record of the opposition leader  Tony Abbott reply to the 2013 budget speech and count the number of times Howard was mentioned and the number of times the GFC was mentioned) because the Australian economy was doing well but there was very little mention of how the world economy was doing well too.
Funny how when Howard was sacked and his government was voted out of office interest rates had achieved an Australian record of 10 rises in a row without one fall between the rises.
Keating was voted out of office but left the Australian economy improving and Howard was sacked an left an economy in trouble with rising inflation and structural budget problems we still experience.
Just the other day I came across an interview by Laurie Oakes interviewing the then health minister Tony Abbott not long after the 2004 election, Oakes asked why the medicare safety net was changed from $300 to $500 so soon after the Howard government which had campaigned that there would be no change during the election campaign. No surprise Abbott the health minister answered that the government didn't foresee the problems before the election that's why what they said before the election was not what they were doing after the election. Does this excuse sound familiar?
It's unfortunate that the during the Howard government which had experience the longest period of economic growth the world had experienced since the rebuilding after WW2 there was no Australian wide paid maternity leave and no NDIS type policy legislated.
But people with billions of dollars could receive a tax rebate on their health insurance costs. Kinda flies in the face of doing the heavy lifting eh ?GDay The Blue Smurf
And how much did a litre of petrol cost ?
You didn't see the comparison of 2.5 x the average wage to 7x the average wage.
I'd say just like then and now buyers want as much as they can get and afford and not travel over two hours to go work and pay $10 to travel on less congested roads.Wow john1 Rhodes scholar eh? I'm more impressed by PM's whom have come from working class families  that left school at 13 and 15 years old.
PM Mr J Curtin whom stood up  to Churchill and PM Mr B Chifley whom managed to get the greatest infrastructure project in Australia's history the Snowy River Scheme started are held high in my view. 
I can imagine how hard these two men have had to work to get to be PM ?
I also believe that the first woman to hold that position MP Ms J Gillard deserves a lot of praise too.Gday john1
I do believe the commonwealth bank was still owned and controlled by the government during Howard's disaster of  terms as treasurer? i.e. the government had  control of home interest rate settings and home loans rates were offset by more expensive business loans ? It was also very difficult to obtain a home loan also.Well john1 I think committing our country to a war without any debate in parliament first which was what Howard did trumps anything Fraser,Rudd or Gillard did. 
Holding men, woman and children hostage on the high seas only so that a government can brag about the numbers of people arriving also trumps anything Fraser,Rudd and Gillard had done too.GDay Brian
Who says there have been no deaths at sea by asylum seekers trying to come to Australia by boat since the commencement of operation sovereign borders ? There were confirmed deaths not long after the operation commenced.
You haven't noticed that the same people who said that there would be no breeches of borders have had to admit there were ?
You haven't noticed that the same person who said that only if those in detention stayed in the detention centre could they expect protection ? He  later had to admit he was wrong.
There have been more reports of deaths at sea not far from Bathurst/Melville islands.
In the future will these reports be confirmed too ? 
Information is being keep secret so how do you know if the have been deaths at sea or not ?
Which independent source can verify that the health condition of over 150 people held against the will on the high seas without the right to speak to their legal representatives is what has been reported by their captors?GDay Alphamikefoxtrot
I remember things differently to you.
I remember the Rudd government was permitted to take rescued asylum seekers on an Australian vessel and tie it up in an Indonesian port.
I remember many attempts to get support for measures to try and stop people drowning at sea but the Abbott lead opposition would not agree to any of them. It was their way or no way that's how much they cared.
It was seen at the time that standing in front of a sign displaying the number of boats that had come was no problem at all. 
Now those that attempt to come by boat are hidden from the world and our government would like them hidden at sea for months it seems.
Morrison is quick to say any allegations of wrong doing by the highly trained and respected members  of operation sovereign borders disgusts him. However he was quick to point the finger at some of those same highly trained members whom would have  had orders that meant they had to sail their vessels much to close to another countries hard to define borders  whilst towing other boats perhaps saying "it was their fault those borders were breeched".
Morrison will have to answer questions at some time and those answers may have to be given in front of the ICJ.GDay PP
But isn't the fact that clothes get manufactured in Bangladesh and exported to other countries for sale because profit can be made ?
If business in Australian could manufacture the clothes at the same cost as they do in Bangladesh because the workforce (the entire population would need wage/salaries rate reduction ) was paid at the same rate they wouldn't generate as much profit selling the product here because the consumer (workforce) could not afford to pay the price they do now ?

I believe only a barter system not reliant on 'profit' would protected jobs. 
If we all earned  the same as a Bangladeshi clothing manufacturer we would need  to travel with four people on motor scooters and people standing on the bumper bar on the back of the overfilled bus to reduce transport costs and wear cloth wrapped around our bodies as clothes, because button holes and buttons would make the clothes to expensive for the population to afford.
We could reduce the cost of manufacturing to next to nothing but we can stop others from manufacturing cheaper and taking our market by giving  their workforce nothing and forcing others to take their place when they died of starvation.
This has happened although human history and happens now unfortunately. The greed of having more stuffed under the mattress  today than yesterday isn't stifled if it means some one else has died because of it, by some.gday hidi 
Trade must be seen as one big circle. To believe we can export without imports means the circle is broken.
Our trading partners need a market for their exports and to take our country out of the circle only means one day they wont  have the money to pay for our exports because we will have all the money. 
What we need is trade deals that boost manufacturing not just agriculture because agriculture must rely on nature to provide the right weather conditions to be experienced. Just a few years of widespread drought and agriculture has a problem for many years. You can't export beef if all the cattle are just skeletons in the dust.How true Lexx the ALP shouldn't have done nothing to protect jobs and then we would have money to spend on more worthwhile things. 
Do you mean like travel expenses to weddings ?GDay AE
I think it time we should push for a world government which could legislate that a few countries only can manufacture the outer skin for the washing machine and only few other countries can manufacture the bowl and only a few other countries can manufacture the motor etc until everyone has a means of putting food on the table.
We live on a finite planet and it's the only planet we have suitable to live on, therefore until we learn to live in  cooperation with each other we will always be watching our back believing someone will bonk us on the head.
To strive for the innovation to manufacture that thing that no one else can manufacture as well only lasts until some one else  manufactures it cheaper and steals our market.
The innovation we should strive for is cooperation.But Fastrope it's senior management that has seen the highest rate of earning increases by a huge percentage more than the workers on the floor
Gee mate the chairman of the board of AWH got $200,000 for about 100 hours work and can't remember what he did for it.Ah Yes AE those Europeans should have done a little more planning before the decided to have a shared currency.
It was surprising how quickly so many of the EU countries  economies tanked when the big banks in the USA got themselves into trouble.
You have to wonder had the EU used stimulus rather than austerity would their economies fair better and recovered sooner ?GDay Bozo
You don't wonder if we are being told the whole 'true' story ?
How many years after the first war with Iraq did we learn that the Iraqi soldiers didn't attack the hospitals during their invasion of Kuwait as was reported at the time.
Whistle blowers have shown our governments or it's spy's  are  not beyond doing acts that most would question the morality off.
I remember "they have weapons of mass destruction, see the photo of this truck" and "they threw their children overboard this photo shows that"
I believe you really have to question any belief 'that they are better than them', because it maybe the fact that 'they' are just better at hiding what they do ?GDay AE 
With passenger planes it's a numbers game also.
That's why is was seen so odd whilst saying there was a 'budget emergency' the Abbott government sent a plane with no passengers from the eastern states to WA to pick up 27 coalition MPs and some of their family member and fly them to Canberra at a cost to the taxpayers of about $150,000.
It was calculated that had commercial Aircraft been used the cost to the taxpayers would have been about $60.000.
Maybe the Abbott government had forgotten about their cry's of "budget emergency" and "the day's of entitlements were over" or "we must all do some heavy lifting" for some unexplained reason ?
Or maybe the don't think all the cry's mentioned above should include them too ?
If I had a $15,000 taxpayer funded bookcase with $10.000 worth of books paid for by taxpayers stacked in it maybe I could find the answers there ?GDay gbe
I heard the State and Territory leaders held an emergency meeting after they heard what was in the budget and I believe it was because they were not to happy about what they heard.
I heard many of the State and Territory leaders say it was a backhanded way to try and force them to call for a rise in the GST
Would they be described as the left of politics you mention ?

I heard the AMA criticise the GP co-payment would they be described as the left of politics ? Who suggested the co-payment ? Where any health providers consulted before the decision to introduce it was made ?

Would your complaint about no alternatives be eliminated if a little book of full of 'dreams' was distributed ?
Perhaps it could have a more descriptive title than the last one we saw like "Our Scam to deceive people into thinking we have a plan "
I still have a copy of "Our Plan" Please could you tell me the page number where it mentions the introduction of a GP co-payment and how this extra payment will not go towards fixing health budget shortfalls ?
I'd also like to known the page number where it mentions how some unemployed will be denied welfare for 1/2 a year unless the begin non existent job training  courses.
Can you tell me the page number where it states that the rate of old age pension increases will be calculated from another figure and federal government concessions will be eliminated ?  
Ah yes AE I remember that election campaign with Howard and his government  going backwards in the polls because of their desire to introduce a tax on things that have never been taxed before. I especially liked the TV add we tax payers paid for with the chains falling off the lawn bowls ball. They were way behind in the polls until the GST came along.
I'm not talking about the goods and services tax but the Good Ship Tampa, then that was followed with the 'lie' "they threw their children overboard. Look here is the pictures that prove it"
The Good Ship Tampa and one unconfirmed 'wrong' report from a naval officer that wasn't corrected until after the election, obtained the so called 'mandate' to introduce a tax on things never taxed before.
If I remember correctly the legislation  had to be changed 3 times before business stopped complaining about the burden it bestowed on them.
I remember the promise given by Howard that it would not cause the price of fuel to increase and the day after it came into effect the fuel companies put up the price of fuel.
So the Howard government changed the fuel excises.
I remember the cost of buy a house rose 10% overnight because of the Good and Services Tax. So Howard introduce the 'First Home Buyers Scheme' and because Housing developers knew their customers had an extra $6,000 dollars to spend the developers increased prices by $6000. 
Now when your electricity supplier increases the cost of your electricity by 1 cent a kilowatt you pay 1.1 cents more.
Now when you pay the plumber for the cost of his labour you pay 10% more.
Can't complain, I got to pay to see the chains falling of a bowling ball, eh ?GDay Disraeli
Do you really believe turning back the asylum seeker boats has stopped asylum seekers from dying ? 
You don't think any of the thousands that have died in Iraq 
( for example )  over the last year, may have returned or stayed there because of the turn back the boat policy ?
Trying reading the interviews of asylum seekers  now in Indonesia (where they have no legal right to work and many entered  illegally too ) whom have lived there for years surviving on money sent from their families whom have sold all their valuables and gone into debt to send that money. They say the endless wait is like being dead and it is killing their families too.
These families whom try to stay unnoticed for fear of persecution or death are trying to give their sons or nephews a life free of persecution and often borrow money from those they fear will persecute them  to do it. Many of those in Indonesia or Malaysia feel it would be better if they were dead and because of this they have no fear of dying on a boat.
Turning/towing back the boats doesn't give asylum to those on the boats and to believe it stops people from dying is not true.
I can't imagine how fearful it must be to live in a country were nearly every week you hear of another 20 or more people have died because of a bomb being detonated whilst they were out buying the groceries, can you ?
How about getting your head chopped of because you didn't go into the right building and pray last week ?
How would you feel if your house was reduced to rubble by a bomb dropped from a plane because some one you've probably  never ever seen before fired a rocket from the rubble next door which used to be the house of your neighbour until it was bombed last year?
How do we stop these things from happening?
How do we stop people from seeking asylum ?
I can't answer, but I'm sure saying "we don't care, go away" is not the answer.
Saying "wait for you turn" and letting them wait for decades is not the answer either.Gday Not True
Please could you supply the information of where I could find a cost benefit analysis of Fibre to the node broad band system ?
Seeing that fibre to the node relies on another companies copper wires to supply broad band to the house/business could you inform where I could find the negotiated cost to use this other companies infrastructure ?
More for less is what the present government promised before they were elected. However many were deceived into thinking they would get more for less and have now found out they receive less and will pay more for it.
I suspect you and your friends will enjoy paying another $7.00 for each doctor visit ? Has the old age home informed you how much their fees will drop because they no longer pay any carbon tax ?   
Gday CC
I believe with we new whom were actual earning the most and how much actual tax they pay on the wealth they made, these figures would be a lot different. There is a reason why the helicopter, Rolls, and water front mansion are owned by 'Pay As Little Tax As Possible Pty Ltd'. Mr and Mrs Money Bags whom sign the checks  for 'Pay As Little Tax As Possible Pty Ltd and have the benefit of it assets and any wealth earned by it but because of it, that wealth is only tax at the 30% company tax rate. With every journey in the helicopter and the rolls seen as a business need and almost every meal eaten in a business meeting and rent for the waterfront being a ridiculous low amount  Mr and Mrs Money Bags can survive on wages paid by the company less than those that exceed the tax free fresh hold and pay no income tax at all.
Even going to the footy grand final and have the benefit of one of the best seats at the ground is paid for by the company.GDay John 
I match your coldest winter for years with my warmest winter ever last year and raise with the hottest summer every last year. How many hands do we play before one of us runs out of chips ? I hell of a lot of people whom know what they are talking about believe that I will win in the end and if they are right my chips and your chips are going to lose a lot of value. 
If your right our chips wont gain any value. 
Lets gamble away, who wants a human habitable planet anyway ?
GDay Richard
Surely mate the report you seek is filed beside the cost benefit analysis done on fibre to the node isn't it ?gday PP 
If I remember correctly that established Telco didn't submit a tender ?But muzzg how is making every one pay $7 more to see a GP going to fix the budget if it does go towards the budget ?
Doesn't the $2.5 billion to pay for direct action come from the budget? How does repealing the price on carbon and spending  $2.5 billion on direct action fix the budget ?GDay Malcolm
Must admit I expected a tragic loss of life to be referred to as "sh*t happens " by now.Reset button ? Please some one hit the reject button, fast !But apld many of the companies that will pay the extra tax to provide some funding for Abbott's PPL already have paid parental leave schemes available for their employees, and many of these schemes pay more than the present government legislated scheme.Gday Andie 
I believe if we were able to have the information of what every person had earned per year  we would find out that many of the top earns pay very little tax per year as a percentage of what they earn ?
If I remember correctly Kerry Packer was paying at tax rate of less than 20% yet is actual wealth was increasing by more than one million a year.
If you own a company which bank account improves by one million in one year, only 30% tax is paid by this company, Only when money is transferred to a bank account in your name does personal income tax need to be paid. Therefore if you  leave the money in the companies bank account your wealth increases by $700.000 and the tax you have actually paid on this million dollar of extra wealth was only the 30% company tax. 
There are many very wealthy people whom own very little in their own name but much of what they have like Rolls Royce's Helicopters and Waterside mansions  are owned by "Try To Avoid Paying As Much Tax As Possible Pty Ltd.
If these things are sold CCT tax means tax is only paid on 50% of any profit made, e.g. i.e. sell the mansion you purchased for 5 million for ten million profit by 5 million but only pay tax on 2.5 million.GDay Andie 
You mean the public servants that the previous government let go to reduce government expenditure in their attempts to address spending ?
I thought the argument was that the previous government was doing nothing to reduce spending ?
Gee who gave me that deceitful information I wonder ?But gbe Australia's first 'National Paid Parental Leave Scheme' was introduced on the 1st of January 2011.
It is the scheme which is in place 'TODAY'. It was legislated by an ALP government with support from minor parties.Well gbe I rebut with what did the Howard government provide by way of parental leave ? Was money tight over those 11 years he held government ?
Where was an NDIS and NBN scheme when Howards government held the purse strings ?
The Gillard/Rudd  government did introduced a parental leave scheme mate.Mmm gbe you must be dead against the governments decision allow an increase  in the cost of university education then ?
Or should only the young people with wealthy families be allowed to buy a university education ?
I suppose the poor families could always rely on scholarships, they seem to be given to the financial disadvantage over the financial advantaged. I give the PM's daughter as an example that this doesn't happen ?
Mate, you argued that the ALP governments did nothing but when your argument is shot down with 'fact' you have tried to change it. Why does the word ignorant come to mind ?Be fair ratten Howard also used our taxes to help build casino's  in electorates which his party held by small margins.
Along with other promises to like fixing waterways in other marginally held seats. Howards government  didn't mind spending if they thought it would win them power regardless of what any independent advice whether that spending was targeted where really needed or not.Gday Jordan
I imagine there will be a lot more people wanting find asylum from their economic disadvantage in Iraq and the Palestine  states.
Mmm yes I suppose you could describe having your house and neighbourhood bombed into rumble as an economic disadvantage ? Having your head chopped of I'm not so sure if that could be describe as being economical disadvantage but I believe it would be a disadvantage to you in some way though ?  
I read on the weekend about asylum seekers whom have arrived in Indonesia (many illegally by boat ) just recently whom meet others asylum seekers already there who have been there for years waiting waiting waiting for the opportunity to start a life similar to one like you have e.g. the legal right to earn a living and provide food for your families table.
Maybe we should encourage them to go back to their homelands and fight for those rights e.g. fire rockets at those that oppress them and steal their lands ?GDay TGU 
Here in the N.T. 'Territory day' is celebrate one day a year. People are allowed to purchase fireworks and for 5 hours on this one night per year we allowed to let them off.
Last night many weeks after Territory day I heard fireworks being let off, this happens frequently even though it is illegal. How do you suggest this illegal act can be stopped ? Should everyone in the area be locked up ? Should they all be questioned to find out who are the culprits ? Is there any guarantee that their friends wont retaliate with against those pointing the finger. 
I remember  Yasser Arafat pleading with the Israeli government, please don't punish the people for actions of a few. He also pleaded that those firing rockets to stop.
The point I'm trying make is it's hard to control people. It must be made a lot harder when every few years all your countries police station are bombed to rubble. It must be made a lot harder when 10 of one lot is killed for every one of the other lot.
Could those that produce arms have any reason to want others to see a need to use them ?  
It seems every time there are leaders prepared to sign peace agreements they are assassinated?Zing supported by the government of Israel, houses are still being built on land the UN has told the Israel government stop building houses on. 
The trouble experienced is this part of the world may have been over years ago if UN resolutions were upheld.
United Nations controlled shelters are being bombed by which side in this madness ?
Years ago after rockets were fired into Israel the elected leader of Palestine Yasser Arafat pleaded "we are trying to control these troublemakers please don't punish all of us because of their actions, if you stopped building on our land we would have a better chance of controlling them as one of their grievances would be eliminated.
The building never stopped and still goes on today.
Can't you see Israel never withdraws completely.Gees Zing Condemning the actions of both Hamas and Israel is seen by your as supporting Hamas. 
I've yet to see Palestinian bulldozers demolishing Israeli homes whilst being supported by Palestinian tanks.But Ben, Adolf Hitler and the Nazi party was an elected government.
Because of this do you believe all his parties policies were right ?
Please can you inform me where I could find the LNP coalitions pre election pledges that stated that children in detention would be held there even if they are suffering mental problems because of that detention ?
But Damage the figure you quote is misleading because you are comparing figures of those whom are in detention in Australia detention without including the numbers that have been transferred to detention in Nauru.GDay Coongara
In comments under another article you stated that the Tamil asylum seekers now in detention at Curtin would have been returned to India bit for the High court application.
Until today I had not learnt of that attempted return which
has been reported for the first time today.
Are you employed by the immigration department ?
How did you know about this information which was not made public until today that you supplied last week ?GDay Zing
Since when has not having the legal right to earn a wage not seen as being persecuted ?
Having the same Freedoms of the rest of the population means you are not being persecuted. When you don't have these rights you are being persecuted.
Look at Article 31 in the refugee convention Australia is signatory.
 'coming directly from a place where their life or FREEDOM was threatened'.
Both Indonesia and Malaysia have not signed the convention, both countries have no obligation to provide the same freedoms their citizens have rights too.Alfie What are you talking about there is still over a thousand on Christmas island.
Add to that the hundreds on Manus and Nauru.
There are still hundreds in detention on the Australian mainland.
Where is the figure of those granted refugee status whom arrived before the PNG solution , since the Abbott's party became  government  ?
Being given the same rights of everyone else in the population will only stop those being persecuted from trying to attempt to move from that persecution.
Labor didn't cause people to attempt to escape persecution.Wow Brian CHILDREN are suffering mental health problems because they believe they will be in gaol for the rest of their lives but you want to investigate why and this happened before?
Please read the Palmer Inquiry published in 2005. It made recommendations of how to address the mental health problems of immigration detainees. Morrison has ignored these recommendations.
Gee mate Morrison response to Humans Rights Commissioner report was she's not a doctor, Doctors questioned by the senate inquiry state that the immigration department that Morrison is in charge of asked that reports they wrote be changed.
Morrison should have called for an immediate investigation of these allegations.
It's well documented that ADF personnel have committed human rights abuses in the past and some of these abuses have occurred to their own members by other members.
Morrison should have called for an immediate inquiry to the burnt hands allegations. 
You want to find out if it's better or worst ?
CHILDREN are suffering and this suffering is causing mental health problems I want it stopped and the Doctor has suggest a way to attempt to do this.
Morrisons response has been "I have nothing to say"Gees Coongara How can that question you asked be rebutted ?
Does the Australian government  have more control of the conditions in Australian camps ( detention centres ) and whom can be released from them or the overseas ones you refer too ?Please do some research before moving to the N.T. for work.
Housing in Darwin is very expensive and difficult to find.
Over 1500 jobs have being lost in Nhulunbuy on the Gove Peninsular  because of the Alumina refinery will be shut down and it's expect these job losses will cause a lot more in the population of the town of about 4000 residence.
2 Iron ore mines have closed down in the last month.
The ranger uranium mine has worked on and off for a few years now.
It wont be that long before the construction of the big gas plant is completed and that will mean about 6000 jobs will cease too.
A large amount of construction work stops or slows down during the wet season which is just a few months away. 
Although Darwin doesn't get the same high temperatures experienced in other capital city's, there has never been a 40 degree day recorded in Darwin, but 34'C can be expected everyday for months. The high humidity means your sweat doesn't evaporate from your skin which means your body's natural cooling system doesn't function.
I don't mean to put people off from moving to the N.T. for work but do some research of what's available and where you expect to live first if you are going to bring your family.GDay OUB
Yes there are mate. They also usual have the fare back home and they and work here for awhile to save enough to get to the  next destination they intend to find work with a little to spend on the way. They often get all the income tax they paid back because they don't exceed the tax free threshold.
They often don't expect to do the work they are doing whilst traveling as a career it's just seen as part of the adventure. They stick it out for a few months then travel on to Indonesia and the Australia money they have made improves the economy of Indonesia or somewhere like that .
A bit like 457 visa's holders, which brings me to another problem with those visa's, which is the employer using them must guarantee the holder work for the length of the visa.
During the huge loss of jobs after the GST many Australian's were laid off and the visa holders were kept employed because of that guarantee.
Odd isn't it that every country that manufactures cars has some sort of government financial support to the industry to protect the huge amount of jobs that industry creates.
Lets hope there are no prolonged droughts in Australia because all the latest trade deals signed by the Abbott government have meant that the other countries have achieved benefits to their  manufacturing industries and any benefit to our country can be cancelled out for many years by a wide spread drought that lasts just 2 years.GDay Tax
I believe the last recession which occurred in Australia was at a time our trading partners had suffered downturns in their economies too. Balance of trade figures were going in the wrong direction.
This and the fact our economy was growing so quickly (5%)inflation was causing problems. The reserve bank was slow in addressing the inflation problem by increasing interest rates to cool our economy and these factors caused the recession.
This is why it was called 'the recession we had to have', I believe.GDay GrahamH
Can you please name the countries that haven't increased debt since the GFC ?
GDay Waterloo
I believe Norway has a public debt of 56% of GDP.
Australia's is less than half that amount.GDay Ann
There are employers or management of employees whom even if paying no wage to the employees at all, would complain about the amount or quality of work being done.
I once started a job mowing lawns ( I lasted a week ) and was told every afternoon I was going to slow. then when a hose fell of the mower and was run over by it I was told I was going to fast.
Believing I was going to slow and to fast at the same time was to much, I left.
This same business has job vacancy advertisements in the paper every week, I wonder why ?Well The Other John I read that comment and saw the reference that the dole was to try and stop employers from paying people fruit picking wages but using their skills to fix complex machinery.
Often you can see jobs as labourers advertised which include the need to be able to weld or must have a truck drivers licence or both and more skills.  
I wonder if in the future hospital orderlies will be required to have neurosurgery qualifications to receive the job and be expected to do the surgery when required and receive a little more in the pay packet for the amount of hours spent doing the surgery ?
GDay Dmenace 
I suspect paper work for 457's is being filled out already.
How does  that work John ?
Are you given the rights of a refugee as described by the convention in Indonesia ?But John if you are prevented by laws to find employment because your ethnic origins aren't you being persecuted ?
Please learn the definition of "human freedom".
You don't believe being give the right to find employment and feed yourself and your family is important ?gday John 
Basic rights must include the right to earn a living legally.
Not having this right must mean persecution is occurring surely?GDay Alfhamikefoxtrot
Agreement with the Indonesian government that visa's of Iranians wanting to travel to Indonesia be assessed more critically was nothing then ?
Agreement with the Malaysian government to except asylum seekers whom arrived in Australia by boat was nothing then ?
Agreement with the PNG government to provide asylum to those that arrived in Australia by boat was nothing then ?
I think you find all these measures were to try and stop boat arrivals by giving no reason to come by boat ?
Absolutely nothing but "our way or now way" was the Abbott opposition stance.Gees Alpha isn't the argument that  everyone in the last government was incompetent ?GDay mack
Yes the refugee convention is and easy to read and understand document.
But why is the word "freedom" mentioned in it so hard to comprehend.
If because you are not a national ( Like an asylum seeker ) and have no legal right to attempt to find employment because you are not a national or have not  being given a visa that allows you to find employment is your freedom to do so restricted by laws ?
If Laws prevent you because of your ethnicity to obtain employment are you being persecuted because of your ethnicity ?Gday Again mack
Mmm you seemed to place a lot of emphasis on the words "directly from" though ?
You don't think that "freedom" is important ?GDay Peter 
I think those 90 odd spin doctors employed by the immigration department are out in force commenting under this article too.But Damon did your forebears believe they would be persecuted if they returned ?Um damon was the convicted party for the term of natural life ?
Was the soldier sent on the same sentence ?How can Morrison argue that Tamil refugees from Sri Lanka in India are not persecuted when it is not legal for them to find work in India because they are from Sri Lanka ?
Doesn't "freedom" require being legally able to work and earn money to feed your family ?common Coogara the high court didn't rule that they must be held on the boat.
That was the Abbott governments decision.But Coongara it is the India government that wants to asses them first not any high court ruling.
As far as I'm aware the only ruling the high court has made was legal teams had to submit documents by certain times.Well Coogara the way people are treating their neighbours I don't think will have much hope of control ?
Having prejudice against others causes most of the trouble.
I try very hard not to have prejudice against others as I don't want to add to the problems, how about you ?Gees Coogara
I see it differently 
I believe turning the boats back is avoiding the issue.
They seek asylum, turning the boats back doesn't address the issue of the asylum they seek.
I believe that cutting the numbers we accept from 20,000 to 13.500 means our country is trying to avoid addressing the issue of numbers seeking asylum.
I believe that the PNG solution ( which gave asylum, not denied it ) is the major reason seeking asylum by boat to Australia has caused a reduction in attempts. 
I believe the Malaysian solution which gave asylum to those waiting in camps and also reduced the numbers of those waiting in camps but returned those that didn't wait in camps,  would have reduced the numbers trying to come by boat.
Can you remember the main reason the Abbott opposition didn't support this solution ? Let me remind you, because the Abbott government was concerned that Malaysia had not signed the refugee convention. Neither has Indonesia or India by the way.
How do you stop 100 million people from seeking asylum? 
I suggest taking away the need to seek asylum would be the best answer. How does turning back the boats do that ?   
I believe it the thought of spending years waiting in camps is the reason they attempt to come by boat and many have by the way.Gees Coongara are you saying losing Australian lives in Afghanistan and Iraq and spending millions of tax payers money whilst doing it was a waste then ?Comon APM being denied the legal right to "WORK" means you more than likely will be poor for the rest of your life.
Being denied the legal right to work means you become a beggar as soon as any savings are spent.
The refugee convention that Australia has signed ( India hasn't nor Indonesia ) states under article 31
The contracting states ( that's us ) blar blar blar  coming directly from a territory where their life or  "FREEDOM" was threatened.
Why do you have so much trouble understanding the definition of FREEDOM ?
Article 22;
The contracting states shall accord to refugees the same treatment accorded to nationals with respects to elementary education.  (India and Indonesia don't do this and have no obligation as they have not signed the convention) 
Article 17
Wage Earning Employment. 
the contracting states Blar blar blar.   
The same, can't stop the right for refugees to earn a wage from employment.

Poverty is not a loss of freedom. Being prevented by  "LAWS" to try and avoid poverty is a loss of freedom. I can't afford that mansion that's expected to sell for $40 million in Perth does that mean I have no freedom ? I'm to poor to afford it.
Being prevented by  "LAWS" to find wage earning employment is a loss of FREEDOM. Being prevented by "LAWS" to attempt to find employment where I might earn enough to buy that house means I have a loss of freedom.
I doubt there would be a court in the world that would rule that poverty is a loss of freedom. 
I doubt that any court in the world would find that "LAWS" which prevented people from being legally allowed to attempt to find wage earning employment were not persecuting them.
I expect every day the immigration or customs departments of the Australian government deport people that are working in Australia illegally, however under our countries obligation of the refugee convention these departments cannot send refugees back to countries where they will not have the same rights as every other national in that country, unless they have committed certain crimes. It is not illegal to claim asylum.
It is not illegal to claim asylum without identification papers.
It is not illegal to come from countries by boat that have not given you the same rights as every other national in that country to Australia and claim asylum. 
If you don't have the same rights as ever other national ( unless you have committed a crime) in the country and you are  not permitted to become a national if you have come from another country that has persecuted you,  you are being PERSECUTED.GDay Graig
The information I relied on came from Amnesty International. 
I don't like to be ignorant so can you please inform;
1.  where has the information you have posted come from 
2. How long are these long term visa's you mention ?
3. for how long do these work permits you mention allow a Sri Lankan Tamil to work in India ?
Gday again Craig
Sorry I miss read your comment and didn't notice your reference to the UNHCR report. I must point out that the report I have read stated that the Indian government had allow some to "apply for"  long term visa's and work permits but there was nothing mentioned about awarding them. Nor the number they were awarded too.
It's was pleasing to read about India allowing UNHCR mandated  refugees to apply for long term visa's and work permits. Learning that about 200,000 are afforded asylum (not  legality to work I add ) mostly from Afghanistan and Myanmar in a country with as many poor as India has, is a good effort by my judgment.
Lets hope the number of these long term visa's and work permits are increased and the times they are valid increases  too.Gday Peter
Some  miners don't pay royalties for years after they have begun mining. Please read about McArthur river mine for example where millions of tonnes of ore was shipped over 11 years and no royalties were paid over that time.
Add to that now an uncontrolled fire of "burning rocks" in the overburden  have caused the need to change practises to prevent the same from happening in new overburden piles.
Which means that not enough was spent on the overburden piles (now on fire ) to prevent fires. i.e. money before environmental safety measures.  Please read about the toxins being released by this fire, flora and fauna will suffer for decades if they survive. Tax payers have paid millions to make an old gold mine (Mt Todd ) safer from environmental damage here in the N.T. The mining company left a $900,000 clean up fund before it went into receivership but over $5 million has been spent by tax payers and more money for work is required. The environmental damage from this mine which has occurred already will never be paid for or rectified. 
State governments hadn't  increase the amount to be paid by royalties for years until the mining tax was legislated and because this tax was reduced by the amount of royalties paid the state governments raised the cost of royalties without any complaint from those paying the Mining tax.
Funny how all of a sudden a rise in the cost of royalties was seen as a good idea to increase state government revenue ?Gday dean
I'm not sure you realise how much infrastructure used in Australia's mining industry is manufactured overseas these days. Almost all of it, mate.
There are about 6 companies that manufacture modular housing in Darwin, none of them got to tender for 250 modular building for the new gas plants workers village and 250 buildings were manufactured and shipped from China.
What chance has our manufacturing industry have when the government is prepared to have ADF sea vessels built overseas ?
Why are trade deals done that benefit other countries manufacturing industries and our country's only benefit is agriculture ? It just takes a few years of drought and being able to export more agricultural products becomes almost impossible.  
Our last federal government wanted to legislate the "Australian Jobs Act " which meant that law would require investment of over 5 million in Australian would require that tenders be asked for from Australian companies. How can Australian companies compete when they aren't even given the chance to submit tenders ? 
Gday burke
I think you will find the share holders in the UK have control of BHP Billiton now ?GDay Todd
I see the mining tax a different way to you. I see it as a way to keep some profits in Australia from Australia minerals.
Whereas the miners can reduced any MRRT to be paid by reinvesting before profit.
I don't see mining iron ore or coal as a risky business as the product it nearly completely ready made.
Miners in Australia have a huge advantage over most other miners in other countries because there are no 4000 metre high mountain ranges or huge fast flowing rivers to traverse when transporting  your product to markets.
Any business that requires some one else to buy your product is a risky business. If that product only needs to be dug up and crushed into easily transported sizes you have a huge advantage over other businesses that have to manufacture a product first.
One of the first iron ore miners in the Pilbara back in the early 1960's dismantled mining infrastructure in Utah USA and reassembled it here in Australia, Even the railroad less the ballast (overburden from the new Australian mine was used as ballast for the railway) originated from that Utah mine. It was the profits lost to Australia by this and other mines being developed at that time which was the reason the Rex Conner of the Whitlam government said "We must buy back the farm." Which meant he wanted Australia to have more control of profits made by it's resources not mining companies.  
We can complain about higher labour costs but it must remember that our standard of living is what gives the miners  the sale the resource they mine. Not many earning $2 an hour buy motor vehicles and washing machines because their wage doesn't allow them to afford those items. The less of these items sold the less need for Australian mining resources.
I see the McArthur river mine N.T. was in the news again this week because of environmental concerns because of an uncontrolled FIRE in their overburden ROCK  pile. Just like to point out that this mine operated and profited for years before any royalties were paid.
2 small iron ore miners have shut down in the N.T. over the last month this was not because of MRRT or the price on carbon. It was because they cannot competed with the big boys whom price them out of markets.
The big miners of iron ore in Australia have been using the threat of "but we must compete with Brazil and Africa" since the early 1970's but have increasingly shipped out more from here almost every year.
I'd like to see a super profits tax placed on the banks too.
But Todd the figures do show that government spending hasn't increased by all that much since 2007 but revenue collected has decreases by a big margin.Gday gbe
What an odd argument you have used.
Are you saying the lower  paid casual, permanent part time  employed would benefit if there were less well paid permanent jobs ? 
Mate it's senior management in the private sector that have enjoyed huge increases in salaries over the last 30 years, in some cases they have had increases of over 10 x .
I use Arthur Sinodinos for example (not because he is liberal but because it was easy to search for information) and the outrageous $200.000 he was paid for a few weeks work at Australian Water Holdings. how can amounts like this be justified ?gday AE read about Mt Todd in the N.T. 
Explain why tax payers in Victoria will pay for compensation because of a mine fire in Morwell.
It not until next month that a report on contamination from the Ranger uranium mine accident on December 7th 2013 in water ways will be complete.
How do you know these bonds are going to be sufficient ?
The money Hardie had put aside for asbestos compensation was well short of what is require, I argue.GDay Bulldust
I think you'll find there is no GST collected on exports mate ?
NSW and Victoria with their large populations collect the most GST by a bigger percentage than what they receive back from the federal government too, I believe.GDay Zing
Have you got access to politicians mail, telephone calls and email ?
How do you know how many have complained to their MP's about the budget ?
Gee mate,  by memory for the first time ever State and Territory leaders called for an "emergency meeting" after hearing what was in the budget.
You or I have no idea of if senator MP's are listening too and acting on what their constituents are voicing. 
Why don't you organise a march in support of the budget ?
Try writing to pensioner groups and university students or government or opposition member of State and Territory parliaments for support.But Alfie treasury has stated if the budget measures are legislated the poorest will be $844/ year worst off yet the richest will be $517/year worst off.
If the poorest pay more than the richest they will never become as rich as the richest. You can't complain that they don't pay as much tax as the richest, they don't have the money to invest and become richer.
You don't believe that very rich lady in WA with the mining interests would be as rich as she is now if she was born to honest hard working non smoking and drinking aboriginal parents living in a aboriginal community in WA do you ?
If this was the case it wouldn't have mattered how hard her grandparents worked as they were not allowed to earn money in WA. sugar and tea was the wage they would have been paid.
The changes the government wants to make to higher education will mean those with the most money will buy the best education and their money will allow the universities to set fees even higher. The poor will be priced out of getting the best  education therefore are still left poorer and people like yourself will argue "but  they don't pay as much tax as the rich".But Alfie the top 1% who's wealth increases the most each year pay very little in tax.
The helicopter used to transport them to the Melbourne Cup is owned by 'Pay As Little Tax As Possible Pty Ltd' which they own. The champagne and strawberries they consumed there are a claimed as a business expense because they drank and ate it with someone else in business whilst they talked about their companies owned horses odds.
Their wealth increases yet only 30% (minus businesses expenses cost ) of tax is paid on the wealth increase.
They sell their company and it's assets like the helicopter and only pay CGT on half of any profit made. i.e. for every dollar made only 50 cents is required to be taxed  so half the money made is tax free.Ahh Alfie I think you missed the bit about cutting the millions from the overpaid fat cats?
Please can you tell me the reduction in salaries the senior management had whist the workers on the floor at Holden and Ford got pay rises ?Gday Coogara 
Do you remember what about said when the last government put a 15% tax on superannuation "Profits" over 100,000 per  year?  Abbott said it was "class warfare."
It was the LNP coalition which was arguing against means testing the health insurance rebate.
The ALP in opposition now, supported the temporary increase in income tax to those earning high incomes. Why is it temporary for only 3 years ? Why not until the budget it in surplus ? Especially when every measure in the Hockey budget which reduces money for those on the lowest earnings are for ever. 
When Rudd legislated that MP would have a pay freeze for 3 years Abbott said "it was a publicity stunt."
I'm not sure what has happened about the same Abbott has proposed  for only one year (WOW one whole year) but I'm certain the ALP will support it.
I don't agree with your statement that the ALP don't try to get more from those earning the most. The way I see it every attempt the ALP have is criticised and argue against by the LNP coalition. 
The reason budget surplus wasn't achieved in 2013 was because revenue received was below what was forecast.
What did the Abbott government  do ? Reduced revenue by repealing the carbon tax but kept the compensation for it.
Gees we have a budget problem, revenue has not increased as expected, I wonder why ?
But Sir Trent
It seems there has be a medical break though by the governments spin doctors?
Hypochondria is cured by removing $7 from all people whom go to see a GP.
If only a State or Territory would legislate to make it legal for the terminal ill to have euthanasia, lots of health care costs would be eliminated keeping people close to death alive for a tiny little bit longer ? There was such legislation but many now saying to much is spent on people without any benefit to their health, voted to overrule the legislation.
Many of these terminally ill people say they are in constant pain even with hundreds of dollars spent every week on medications in attempts to eliminate their pain.
Odd isn't it, penalties are enforced if someone allows animals to suffer needlessly, yet penalties are enforced if someone helps another human end their suffering ?GDay Dr ig
So your saying 49 of 50 patients have nothing wrong with them and you can tell this by not doing any tests ?
Mr fathers doctor told him to tell me to get regular tests for diabetes once I had reached the age of 50 years.
Now at 58 years and not had a test for 2 years if I came to you would you reassure me well or take blood and urine for testing or with a referral send me to a place where this happens ?
If the test came back negative would I be included in one of those 49 you mention ?
How often do you suggest people have medical check ups ?
Is health anxiety a mental illness ?
Is the most effective treatment for hypochondria removing money from the sufferers pockets ?GDay EMH
I do remember hearing the government has employed more doctors.
Not of medicine though, an increase of spin doctors was reported.GDay Oaktree
I think there must have been a medical break though ?
It seems the treatment for people with the mental illness of hypochondria requires money to be removed from the pockets of every person who see's a GP ?GDay Gary 
It beats me why the same people whom argued and voted to overturn the  Northern Territory legislation which allowed the terminally ill the right to euthanasia to end their pain and the distress of their families and the burden of their healthcare costs, now want every one to pay extra to see a GP to stop people from seeing a GP unnecessarily and being a burden to the cost of healthcare ?GDay AE 
Does the mention of a certain PM's daughter and scholarship support your argument ?
To many licenced drivers disobey the road rules.
Would making all licenced drivers pay more because of this fix the problem ?But Rusty the "High Frequency" you mention  isn't supported by any facts.
The belief that work for the dole leads to employment isn't supported by any facts.
Planting 20 million trees will sequester 60% of carbon emissions isn't supported by any facts.
The belief that FTTN NBN will provide what is will be required in the 21st century and cost less overall isn't supported by any facts. 
The statement "I'm certain" is used constantly by the Abbott government as a fact, but too often it is not supported by facts. It's just a belief or nothing more than a dream.
Where is the treasury forecast of how much the GP co-payment will reduce budget spending ?
Please don't be conned by the conmen saying "I'm certain"But Rusty the bleating is because many believe the co-payment will cost Australian's more in health spending overall.
The bleating is because many see that those with the least amount of money to spare will not go to the GP and have minor  health issues cured but end up in hospital with more serious health issues because the minor issues weren't cured. 
The bleating is because the government is arguing this measure is needed to reduce health cost but doesn't use the money directly to pay health costs.GDay Rusty
As Dave points out you are wrong to believe there is a cap on the amount paid in GP co-payments.
The Australian Medical Association warns the GP co-payment is likely to increase healthcare costs overall. They have given reasons why. 
Wouldn't an "adult" government consult with health care professionals before announcing a policy about healthcare ?GDay Freddie 
Please can you explain this direct stake you mention ?
 Ahh Freddie I do believe that $2 of the $7 is kept by the medical practice and it's believed to be way above the cost  required to collect and process the co-payment.
We  still have not be told whom gets the other $5.
Would it be a surprise to find out in years to come that family or friends of politicians or doctors started medical research companies not long after the introduction of the GP co-payment ?GDay again Freddie
Who said anything about getting the Healthcare providers to design policy ?
 Still there is no proof of overuse. Any overuse could be found  by monitoring Medicare cards use, and the reason why it is used so frequently investigated.
Please read the article above and recognise where health professionals believe the co-payment will cost us more in healthcare overall because minor ailments were not treated at by GP because those effected will not see the GP.
This argument seems very valid in my view.
The governments argument supported by you is that the co-payment will cure hypochondria and cost the people of Australia less overall but an extra $7 is paid to see a GP.
Who's argument relies on a truckload of salt ?
When the Whitlam government legislated Medibank it meant that GP's were not paid in cash by the patient the AMA was in uproar.
It's cash payments that are the easiest things to avoid paying government duties on.GDay TC
Says who ?
Who has you believing that they leave school and go on the dole and it becomes a way of life ? 
What none do training ? 
Is it 10% do, or 20 % what is the figure ?
Errr gbe I don't know about that, I've read some of your comments.
Ignorance is not good defence in the court room.
Whom knows because of data retention you may be in a courtroom in the future saying "I didn't know it was a crime " or "it wasn't me" ? 
Criminals use others id to commit crimes today, How do we ( or in your case 'I' ) prove we are not the criminal when the information of the crime is just numbers not photo's, fingerprints or DNA ?GDay Kevin52
How long will it be before some politicians announce at a press conference "from this day all newborns will be micro chipped to protect the countries citizens, by allowing their every move to be recorded " ?Comeon john1, it was Hockey whom said in regards to the budget "plan B was plan A".
It's Hockey whom is threatening to bypass negotiation in the senate.
It's Hockey that is threatening to avoid negotiations with  democratically elected members of parliament.
Hockey states that the GP co-payment is needed to stop people going to see a GP unnecessarily. Where is the research that states this is seen as a problem ? Peter Costello sees the GP co-payment as a disaster that's his 'opinion' and the same  'opinion' is  shared by many of us because the 'reason' given for it's introduction is only an 'opinion' of the Abbott government  not supported by any factual evidence. 
Work for the dole in the belief that it will provide private employment isn't supported by any evidence it's just another unsupported by facts 'opinion' of the Abbott government that it will.  
 The disasters of the self called 'adults ' of the  Abbott government in their 'opinion' they believe by calling themselves 'adults' they think we all should see them as that way. True adults negotiate outcomes, they don't turn their backs saying we will do it without the need to negotiated with you.   
If the Abbott government doesn't want to negotiate policy with the present members of parliament and in their 'opinion ' they believe the people see them as the only 'adults' worthy of  being elected, lets have a DD and let the peoples 'opinion'  decide.
History records many 'brave adult ' newly elected Australian Federal Governments have returned to the polls in attempts to get the numbers they require if in their 'opinion' they believed the elected members of the houses of parliament were not giving what the voters really want.Well john1 seeing it in action wasn't required by Abbott whom said "the carbon tax would wipe Whyalla off the map."
It wasn't required to be seen it action before Barnaby said "a leg of lamb would cost $100 dollars." Both these statements were made before the legislation was passed.
What you argue is not what Abbott and Joyce believe when they attempt to seek political advancement by outrageous exaggerated claims, but is that to hard for you to understand ?Ahh John, do a little research and you will find the nationals have at times formed a coalition with ALP to form governments.
The nationals were a political party long before there was a liberal party.
Not so long ago in QLD the National party and the Liberal party were enemies.GDay maus
You do realise that renewable energy also includes bio fuels?
You know you grow the crop not as a food source (which in reality is an energy source any way to the life that consumes it ) but to make fuel from it.  Gees mate, some of the stuff you flush down the toilet can be used to make fuel.
Do a little research and learn about some of the crops that can be grown in salt water or fresh water  and take Carbon out of the atmosphere whilst growing and then the growth can be  fermented into fuels. Imagine thousands of square kilometres of salt water ponds in the very arid regions of Australia used to grow fuels and the jobs provided in doing so ? There is very little difference in elevation between the coastline between Broome and Port Hedland and the Great Sandy and Gibson deserts, so very little energy would be required to pump sea water to ponds made there. Fossil fuels will be all use up in about 200 years at the increasing rate they are used now.
It's only because the true cost for the damage to the environment by releasing stored carbon into the atmosphere by burning fossil fuels isn't paid, that makes many believe they are cheaper than renewables.
Gday rattan
When a very well educated person like Tony Abbott believes coal is a gift from nature, doesn't realise it's only a form of rock and only by heating it above it ignition point does it produce energy, how can the average educated person not be ignorant ?
The only true energy sources that are a gifts from nature don't require energy to produce energy. Like the energy produced by the nuclear fusion which occurs 40,000 kilometres away and we call it the sun or gravity which causes that fusion which is also a natural energy experienced through out the universe.
These "true gifts" from nature .ie.  light and heat from the sun and tides and running water caused by gravity are the reasons life is on our planet and the reason there is rock that can be ignited like coal.Gee hidi has the senate blocked supply ?
There is nothing stopping the government from governing apart from their inability to debate, argue and negotiate legislation through both houses of parliament, most governments have had to negotiate policy.
You must have been really disappointed with obstruction of the last parliaments opposition in regards to the Australian record of over 80 attempts to suspend standing orders and non confidence motions ?
What about the weeks spent trying to discredit the PM using something that happened over 20 years beforehand without any evidence that any laws were broken ? 
Think about how had it was made for that government to govern ?
If supply was blocked you would have reason to complain.GDay livo
From what I've read every country with a car manufacturing industry has government financial support.
Even before being elected the Abbott lead LNP coalition  had said they would not supply government support to our car industry.
When asked a question about whether treasury would give aid to the car industry our treasurer goaded them to announce they leave, a few days later one made the announcement and about two weeks after the last remaining one did too.
Abbott offcourse blamed it all on the carbon tax but it's is now repealed but there has been no announcements saying car manufacturers have changed their decisions and will stay.
Will the Abbott government ever take responsibility for the damage they are doing to our countries social wellbeing and economy?
Or will they wait to be humiliated by the polls like the QLD Newman government before any learning occurs ?GDay muzzg
Please can you name the countries that manufacture cars that don't have the government using some  form of support to their car manufactures ?Gee john1 can you explain how in the 42nd parliament policy that both major parties campaigned with were not passed through the senate twice?
The LNP coalition opposition and the government then negotiated for over 8 months and agreement was reached to legislate the negotiated policy however the LNP  changed leader and withdrew support.
8 months of negotiation was wasted on policy that both parties had campaigned with.
It's the Abbott governments stance that plan B is plan A is the reason for obstruction. The Abbott government wont support  review. It's the Abbott government that holds the ridiculous belief that our democratic elected parliamentarians should be controlled like a dictatorship and must support everything they want.
Who voted for a cost of  $7 to added see a  GP ?
Which healthcare providers suggested this extra $7 should be added ?GDay Alfie
How was it taken out of context Tony ?
A lot of us are thankful the unfortunate deaths which occurred by the downing of MH17 where not referred too as sh*t happens.
Which dummy's didn't notice the electricity bills they were comparing had a huge difference in the amount of electricity used ?
 An Ambassador was withdrawn from Australia. Defending actions taken by the Attorney General are needed in the International Court of Justice because he ordered the removal of legal documents which were the property of another country. Our government is ignoring questioned asked by the UNHCR. Members of "Operation Sovereign Borders" have breeched another countries borders with armed sea vessels after our government had assured that country that this would not happen.
How do you judge what should be seen as a good or a poor government ? I expect it would be one that can be trusted and respected by it's people and by the people of other countries.
Abbott has blamed ever job lost in Australia over the last few years on the carbon tax but today another Australian company has announced that 670 jobs will be lost to Australia, try to blame that loss on the carbon tax.
Crying ''budget emergency'' but spending thousands of dollars of tax payers money for a bookcase for your office for books paid for by tax payers to be housed. You can't see the hypocrisy ? 
Alfie, millions of our taxes are being spend by the Abbott government for people to comment on forums like this like yours, to try deflect criticism and get people to like them more, it's not working but costing us millions.
Never before has a government lost support as fast as the Abbott government has, crow about that mate.GDay mike 
Is this your argument ?
Because other people allow their dogs to defecate in your street and don't remove it, you see no problem with me allowing my dog to drop one there too and I shouldn't expected to remove it ?
I have a different view because I want the dogs faeces removed from your street, I remove mine and ask the others to do it too. I'm not a hypocrite.
 I believe that if that everyone used your argument of, "don't pick up your dogs faeces until others remove theirs first", will mean none will ever be removed and every day there will be more dog faeces.
Because others humans are changing our only planets atmosphere by releasing toxins stored under the ground, we should do it too, and because they can use your argument of, "they should wait for others to limit emissions first, the atmosphere will never have a reduction of human released toxins. 
You argue that agreement must be reached first.
By displaying you have done what you ask other to do, strengthens your argument doesn't it ?
 You do understand the definition of the word hypocrite don't you ?GDay again mike
So humans actions changing the composition of our planets atmosphere doesn't bother you ?
I've only got a little dog you'd hardly notice the faeces from it so with your argument I shouldn't bother removing them,
especially if others don't agree to remove them too.
I ask again, Does showing you are acting on something you want others to act on strengthen  your argument they should do it too or weaken it ?GDay John 
Spend a day at a recycling centre and see what comes in for recycling .
I suspect that not functional  wind turbines will be felled like trees and cut up and as much recycled as possible. I expect that the materials not seen as recyclable will be buried in the ground.
This is what happens with many decommissioned nuclear reactor contaminated materials. However the wind turbines materials not wanted for recycling will only be needed to be buried metres under the ground not hundreds of metres then guarded like the radioactive materials.
What is trying to be achieved by using renewable energy and reducing CO2 emissions is those mountains you mention becoming bare dirt islands surrounded by highly acid water and supporting very little life.  
It not hard to find evidence that shows fat cats have used every available means to protect their profits with little regard for the health of people, mate. Tabaco, Asbestos are examples.
You don't think the fossil fuel industry is trying very hard and every means possible to protect their profits ?Gday EVAN
Do you believe after the next climate talks China will abandon it's plan to clean the air of it's major cities ? 
I'd say the Chinese are going to push for a world wide ETS policy and this is the reason why they are buying renewable energy generation systems around the world, they have purchase huge shares of Hydro Tasmania's wind farms, for example.
These investment will allow them to offset emissions.
I think the question that should be asked is, Will the Abbott government send any of it's MP's to the next climate talks ? 
If so, will they argue, we have a plan to formulate a plan and it's called Direct Action and even though no one in Australia and the world but ourselves believes it will be more cost effective than the policy we repealed we wont listen?
The "I'm certain that targets will be met" voiced by our environment minister, should be taken with scepticism after we hears the "I'm certain that Indonesia's sovereignty will be respected and no breeches of their borders will occur. "To really boost or economy and to lower Australia's electricity prices why don't we take the next step to make or power cheaper?
Think how much cheaper it would be to mine coal if all mine safety measures in place now were repealed. There is no shortage of workers here in Australia and add those from other countries whom want to find work here,  why do the miners  stop work when a worker dies because of a wall collapse? 
Just replace the dead miners with a new one and keep mining and profit more profit needed not safety of easily replaced workers, surely ?
Think about how much more profit could be made in coal mining if there was no need to have run off dams built, it not like these run off dams are needed to stop run off every day is it ? What does it matter if the water courses the pollutants from the mine flow into, kill, there are plenty of other water courses aren't there?
Think about how much cheaper it would be to use this cheaper coal from our cheaper to operate coal mines to make electricity if there was no need to remove pollutants burning coal emits? Can it be proven that the toxins released by burning coal at the power stations will effect the health of every Australian ? Think about it, some will live and work nowhere near where these emissions will travel, surely they deserve cheaper energy don't they ? Why should they pay more for electricity just because other humans "might" have health problems because power plant emissions ?
Think about how much faster nuclear reactors could be built if all the safety controls were eliminated? Why do we need to bother with them when just one huge natural disaster like a volcanic eruption could wipe out billions lives in hours. This argument shows how stupid it is to try and protect the environment with polluting controls, doesn't it ?
If Australia had cheaper energy and the average worker was paid $2/hour lots of money could be made into profit by selling stuff manufactured here and sold to those whom earn enough to buy more than just enough food to survive, in other countries, surely?GDay gbe
You don't think the biggest downturn in world economics the world had seen since the great depression may have taken up some of the governments time ? Australia does trade with other countries around the world doesn't it ? Those countries do too don't they ?
The months spent on speculation of what the PM did 20 years ago must have been helpful also.
Then there is the record of over 80 unsuccessful attempts to suspend standing orders or no confidence motions no way they may have slowed  government doing government business by any chance ? 
Mmm months spent negotiating an ETS policy weren't wasted were they ? Why ? If I remember correctly someone named Abbott believed a carbon price would be a better policy was the reason there was not an ETS legislation passed in 2009 ?
GDay JohnM
The article above asks should we use a road racing bike or a BMX bike, which type of bike would work best ?
However you want argue the question do we need a bike ?
The major federal political parties have moved on, from do we need a bike ? 
Most of our population has moved on and I hope that the commenters ignore your attempts to change the question.
GDay Realist
And now we wait in excited anticipation for the announcement that Whyalla has been found again. $150 has been taken off the price of a leg of lamb.  Olympic Dam expansion will commence on.  Holden and Toyota will manufacture vehicles in Australia for decades to come. 
Without all above happening just what has been achieved by the great triumph of the Abbott government ?GDay 
What I've found most annoying is the fact that when any attempt was made to learn about the working of "the Direct Action Plan" all I heard was "but the carbon price"
A policy which has had a life of over 4 years has turned out to be a plan to have a plan.
The most important part of this plan to have a plan is the setting of base lines which have still not be set, but the frustrating thing is that the Minister doing all the work  has stated there will be no penalties is the baselines are exceeded.
Imagine if the same stance was used for speed limits on our roads ? The police would watch a vehicle speed passed at twice the speed limit out side a school, thinking if only there was a way I could penalise that speeding driver, to try and change his driving habits.

Reading another article here on the Drum posted today I learn that one of the companies supply electricity in NSW has given figures of between 20 to 50 cents a day can be expected to be returned to the customer. Using the maximum figure shows that $182.50 per year is way short of the average of $550/year which was promised.
With that and Direct Action still not budgeted will there be any savings at all to our pockets and will there be any attempts to tackle AGW in Australia ? 
It will be interesting to see what our Federal Environment Minister will do in regards to the CC summit next year ?GDay Rusty 
It's good to read your happy in the belief of an increase in you wallet of 50 cents a day.
Can I suggest you use it wisely, maybe investing in way to produce you own electricity by renewable ways to avoid future prices rises?Gday JessC
I offer my condolence to the families and friends of Mr Murphy and Mr Scolari and wish these 2 fellows now RIP.
I truly hope that the freak storm like the one that contributed to the deaths don't become common in the future because of humans changing the composition of our planets atmosphere.
My last power bill which arrived a week or so ago had an $80 dollar credit on it to compensate for a power failure suffered from Darwin to Katherine. All those relying on the Territory governments power grid over this 300Km distance lost all power, some up to 37 hours I believe. Here at my place it was only about 8 hrs. However working on nightshift I had trouble sleeping without the ceiling fan working. The power went out at about 4am and information supplied by ABC radio (all other radio stations  are just recorded music and advertisements at this time at night) I learnt that it was "only " a blown circuit breaker which I assumed would be repaired promptly so didn't start my small generator to supply some electricity. There are regular power failures here in the top end too, hence the small generator which is needed to stop hundreds of dollars of food from spoiling. This happens quickly when the daily temp is on average over 30 c.
I haven't yet heard of how much NT electricity prices will fall with the repeal of the price on carbon. Being fuelled by natural gas we were told the price rose by 6.9%. taking that full 6.9% of my power bill would mean a saving of less than $100/year which means I wont be retiring early unless by no choice of my own I'm "liberated" as Abbott believes how your loss of employment should be seen.
 I believe it's best not to expect anything but hardship from  the present government in Canberra, as I remember that last time a government was replaced on the premise of an emergency that only the LNP coalition could fix, those on the ever lengthening unemployment lines  because no fixing occurred were told that "Life wasn't meant to be easy" 
I just keep reminding myself that it's only at the most 2 years of suffering before we have the chance to vote in  a government that believes having the chance to find and keep real employment in a job you like doing is what should be described as  liberating. I take heart in the chance to 'liberate' Abbott and his crew the way he believes liberating should be viewed, and wish being able to repeat what was said to Howard. Don't bother coming to work on Monday cause you've been what's is now called "Liberated"Gees Realist I doubt if every other person on the planet agreeing would change you view ?GDay Realist
By Real jobs do you mean spending a couple of million for people to make comments on sites like this to spruce for the government ?
I believe 90 of these jobs are for the Immigration Ministry ? 
It must need a lot of people to say 'We have nothing to say" and "But the boats have stopped, what people on what boats ssshhh don't want to talk about them" ?Gees Greig, would you like to compare how much energy has been produced by the sun for our planet over billions of years and the amount of pollution  that have been emitted by that energy generation to  the amount of energy produced by humans using fossil fuels and tother non renewable energy?
You don't get it do you?
 You believe by investing in nuclear and better systems of getting power form nuclear is the answer but neglect to realise it still relies on a "non renewable " fuel source. 
The nuclear energy industries have the most expensive pollution control costs of all energy produced by man. Which is not fully paid for by the price it's energy is sold at.
 When will demolition and new building be allowed to occur on the sites of the non used nuclear energy reactors ?
How do you calculate how much this non productive land will cost over hundreds of years before it can be used again?
It obvious to me that biofuels development is required because they remove some of the CO2 burning them produces. With more research and development in this area, more CO2 production from making energy could be become neutral. Using biofuels ( our sewage systems can be used to produce fuels ) and natural sources of energy like the sun, wind and gravity is where research and investment should occur, as these sources of energy will last for the life time of the best nuclear reactor we have.
 This nuclear reactor has it's own fuel supply and gravity that makes it fuse atoms and produce energy. 
It will remain operational without maintenance or need of security guards for another 4 billion years and the cost of the energy it has supplied over the last 4 billion years and will supply for the next 4 billion years has never changed and never will change.
Please watch the Four corners program titled "Power to the people "
There is a reason why marine navigation aids all around the world are power by the sun, can you work out what is that reason ? 
The international space station is powered by the sun, can you work out why?Gee Greig did you see the cost blowouts in the making nuclear power plants greenfields ?
Did you notice the time frame required to do it ? Decades Greig.
Did you learn that it's believed the decommissioning funds are underfunded ?
My reading suggested averages of  $325 million USD in the US 
In France a 70MW has costs of $ 480 million euro's and still counting 20 years later.
I also found by wiki that the European Commission has estimated that dismantling 150 nuclear power plants is estimated to cost an average of 1 billion euro's per reactor.
Where did you get your $125 million per site figure from ?
From the nuclear energy industry perhaps ?
Mate, if cooking is required on a navigation beacon It only requires more energy collection devices not more fuel.
It doesn't take 30 years of engineering experience to understand that a 100MW coal fired electrical generator operating at full capacity will not produce more energy if more coal was burnt by it. Just like the navigation beacon it would require more energy collection devices but unlike the renewable energy navigation beacon it also requires more fuel to mined and crushed and transported and fed into the burners.
Also this would have to occur for as long as that extra energy is required, the renewable energise navigation beacon only requires and upgrade once, they both require maintenance,  which way will cost more over time ?GDay JAL 
Yes look at France and learn of the money spent already trying to find a permanent "safe" place for nuclear waste storage. They have only been working on this problem since the 1960's and are still in the experimental testing stages with "hopes" that permanent safe storage will begin in 2025. It's cost the French people billions already and will cost billions and billions  more in the future. 
I believe the science, I would like to see global action on AGW which would see penalties in place for countries that don't have some form of CO2 pricing. But I understand that I can't argue that you stop doing something that I'm doing myself.
I gave up playing the children's game of  I'll do it, if you do it first when I became an adult. 
People are starving all over the world because not enough food can be grown near them or transported to them when they need it, not because not enough food is grown on the planet and not because they don't have electricity. The cost of finding food and  transporting food to starving people has been a problem for centuries and will persist unless forgoing profit and suffering a loss is excepted to feed them. 
The carbon tax wasn't  to stop the ability to pollute, it was to have a  cost on man made emissions paid for and as a driver by cost, to more energy efficiency.  Some of the money collected was used to search and develop and implement more ways to generate energy that pollute less.
It's impossible to stop business from country shopping (it's been happening for decades ) unless Worldwide excepted agreements are used and only if these agreements are upheld can ways be found to protect jobs in countries and the people whom want more and more profit work against having worldwide agreements so they can make bigger profits. These profit hungry people will want me to earn less for as long as you earn more and therefore can afford to purchase what I make. This works for them  because you  (and I)  want to pay less to purchase things.Mmm Greig, More rubbish from you.
Solar power uses sunlight for power the cost of sunlight is 'zero'
besides this you are not factoring in any of the true cost to the environment in your comparison.
Manufacture a solar panel and leave it in the sun and clean it once a month and it produces power for years. Manufacture a 
coal, gas or nuclear power plant and leave it anywhere you like it wont produce any energy except what is generated by the  heat from the sun. Only when more is spent to supply the fuel and this 'more spent' is a ever increasing cost will it supply any more power.
Leave a slice of bread in the sun long enough and it's toast mate. spread the whole loaf out and in about the same time it will be all toast.   Put a big enough magnifying glass at the right distance and angle above it and within minutes it's charcoal. You can use a similar method and the same fuel source which cost  'zero' to melt metal, this happens when the metal reaches temperature above 1200 degrees C. What temperature do you want to cook your food ? 
You can buy solar powered stoves and cook with them.
People all over the world have used the sun to cook and preserve food for consumption in the future for centuries.
Being connected to a power grid doesn't guarantee power. Some in the NT were without grid supplied power for 37 hours a few months ago in the NT, this was because of a malfunction, not a storm or any other natural disaster.
Batteries development is improving all the time. If the average cost for grid power is $1200/year/house  this means more than $6000 has to be spent over 5 years on batteries before the cost is equal to the average on the power grid.  
A solar only powered aeroplane has flown for coast to coast in the USA  and will soon fly by solar power around the world.
Development of sea vessels powered by the wind are breaking speed records regularly because of sail and hull design not because more fuel was used and the cost of the wind used as the energy source  is the same price the Egyptians paid 6000 years ago. 
That Cost is "Zero" and it will be zero tomorrow and next year and the year after this zero cost will be in place for the next 4 billion years do the math on that.
Zero X 4 billion is Zero. 
GDay Greig
Fossil fuel energy is only cheap if the cost of the damage for mining it and burning it is not paid.
Please watch the four corners program 'Power To the people"
and learn how Lancaster in California has 97% of it's electricity supplied by renewable energy and expects to have the figure of 100% in 2018. Lean how hundreds of thousand of jobs have been created in the USA in the renewable energy industry.  Lean that a Lawn bowls club in Orange NSW has cut it's electricity bill by more than a third by investing in renewable energy and will pay for that investment within 5 years.
The uncontrolled fire that burnt near Morwell in Victoria for four weeks that will present health and environment cost for decades,  only occurred because the cost of making a old unused section of the coal mine safe, was never paid. 
Can't you see that because the power generated from the coal mined at that section of the mine was not priced high enough was the major reason that money wasn't spent making the mine safe.
Please learn about Apple's investment in renewable energy Greig. 
Why hasn't BHP now stated that the extension of the Olympic Dam mine will  now go ahead ?
Why hasn't GM and Toyota announced they will now keep production in Australia?
We were told by Abbott the reason they are stopping production and the investment was stopped was because of the price on carbon. 
Now that price has been eliminated, what excuse will the Abbott government use next ?
Wages and conditions will be the next excuse and when the people of Australian  no longer earn enough to afford to own and run motor vehicles the LNP will use another lie as an excuse. 
Comon Greig the power generated by the solar system on the Orange Bowling Club will generate cheaper power even if no subsidies were paid. Mate it's because of things like the repeal of the cost on carbon and not paying the true cost from using energy sources that damage the environment that make renewable energy seem to cost more. 
By placing a price on the damage caused by burning fossil fuels will stop developing countries investing in it and damaging the environment.
Wind is used and has been used as an energy source for many things for thousands of years. It has been used to pump water but because fossil fuels were seen as a cheaper source when they were a cheaper source ( compare the price of petrol/diesel  in the 1950's to today ) the wind power water pumps were not maintained and fossil fuelled pumps were installed. The cost of the fuels regardless of a carbon price or not is the reason that these pumps are being replaced with wind powered pumps again.  
Why it that you still don't understand the true cost of using fossil fuels is not being paid ?
Greig  you forget to factor in the size of the mine used to supply the plant into you figures and if it's coal the size of the mine must increase every nano second the fuel is being mined, if it's gas more gas must be found and mined to supply the energy in the future. 
Renewable energy is called that because it source is never diminished, it never cost more for the energy it can generate.GDay hidi
How can you claim there is no gain globally, governments in many country's around the world have used Australia's price on carbon as argument in their push for CO2 reduction ?
Now Australia has a much diminished argument and if the Abbott lead LNP had they way the support to renewable energy industries and investment would be stopped too.
Please find and read the cost benefit analysis on the 'direct action plan' better still find the complete Direct Action Plan and inform us where this 4 year old policy is.
Useless is a good description for it I think you will find.GDay Realist
Isn't the story about political party funding ?
I believe Obeid and the others you mention are accused of lining their pockets not their political parties pockets.
Regulation was put in place to stop developers from buying government support. The ICAC investigations has shown how this regulation was bypassed.
GDay harry
When ALP governments introduce means tests on government support to those on higher incomes whom represent a minority of the population why is there such a lot of complaint about them ?
How does the $7 extra to see a GP lower government expenditure to health cost on the budget ?
Where will the $2,000,000,000+ of our taxes be found to be used for the Direct Action Plan ? 
Do you think it would be cheaper to supply the needs of more than 150 people on a boat at sea or on an island which has regular transported supplies ? 
What do you think would be the most effective action to protect children not trained as mariners from drowning at sea, extending the time they are at sea or moving them to dry land ?Gees john you complain that others have a blinkered view.
If there is a budget emergency why isn't  the extra $7 we are asked to pay to see a GP used as a measure going towards fixing the emergency ?
Why keep tax cuts that were to offset the extra cost to households because of the price placed on carbon if there is not going to be a price on carbon ?
Why tax some companies more to fund the PPL, which is believed still not to be enough to cover the cost of the PPL ?
Why do trade deals that benefit other country's manufacturing industries when our manufacturing industries are in decline ?
Great, Australian beef will be sold in other country's at a more competitive price, but if our agricultural land suffers from drought or floods there will be less beef produced to sell.
GDay John1
Using your argument, can you explain why when both the ALP and LNP coalition went to the 2007 election with ETS policies one wasn't passed ?
There was lots of negotiations and an agreement reached with the LNP coalition that the negotiated ETS bill would be supported but it still didn't pass, why ?
Using your argument why did the coalition senators in that parliament not pass a bill that was negotiated for months and agreed on especially since it was what the coalition asked for a mandate to implement ?Wow john1 the State and Territory leaders had an emergency meeting days after they heard what was in the Abbott governments budget, because of the concern they had about it.
Can you inform how many times State and Territory leaders have had emergency meetings in the past ?
As far as I'm aware for the first time Australia has had to defend it's self in the ACJ because of actions ordered by our Attorney General.
Our closes neighbour redrew it's Ambassador.
Criticism of our government is coming from all corners of the planet on more than one issue.
The High Court is looking at border security because it's being argued that laws are being broken.
What would it take for you to see that the Abbott governments failures, sanctions by the UN perhaps ?Gday Forrest
Why waiting to pay for fuel this morning I turned the front page of our Murdoch owned newspaper and read that polling has found that our sitting LNP coalition member of federal parliament has had a swing of over 15% against her.GDay john1
Have they sent you a letter saying your bill will be reduced by approximately $350 per year after the repeal ?GDay john1
The electricity provided to the NT is government owned, the NT government owned electrical power is generated by burning natural gas. They stated that the carbon tax increased cost by 6.9%
Since the introduction of the price on carbon the NT Government increased the price of power by 30% then while the Chief Minister was in Japan his party replaced him without notifying him and then reduced the price rise by 5%.I would rather see the price on carbon change to an ETS and no doubt in the near future international trade will require payment of ETS. 
But note when carbon tax was legislated there was a condition that meant businesses that jacked up their prices higher than the carbon tax increased their cost blaming the tax as the reason, faced penalty.
Real adults in government  legislated policy with safe guards in place.
Now we have the self called "adults in charge" whom new weeks before they introduced their carbon price repeal bill into the house of reps for the second time, that the PUP wanted the safe guard that the full reduction of tax no longer paid be returned to the customers not pocketed as profit by businesses.
The self called "adults in charge' didn't amend their bill but  passed it through the lower house with the numbers advantage the have there, then whoopeed amongst themselves about some monumental achievement that they still hadn't achieved.
Now we find out  the repeal of the carbon price wont be achieved without returning to the lower house, more whoopee to come it seems.
Can you believe it, we pay the MP's in this  incompetent government.
We paying them to hug and pat each other on the back for non achievements?    
We are facing 2 more years of this incompetent government, what will be the cost to our country ?GDay din
But  the government rushed the second attempt to repeal the carbon tax through the house of reps, after Palmer made his statement his party would only support it if guarantees were legislated that the full amount of tax no longer paid was given to the customers.
On the 12th June the government knew what Palmer wanted added to the legislation,  they passed the bill through the lower house without PUP amendments on the 27th June. 
It was the self called "ready to govern" and  self called "adults in charge" whom didn't introduce the carbon tax repeal bill with PUP amendments in the house of reps.
Abbott's government didn't do  the right thing.
All that  hugging and backslaps they gave each other looks stupid now because they didn't introduce the bill with the correct amendments need for it support in the senate  in the house of reps first.
Unless as Palmer has said, the Abbott government tied to deceive their bill through both houses.Wow Forrest 
Wasn't it Abbott's electoral office staff's fault by not informing him that was the reason he wasn't there for the meeting organised with Mr Bernie Baton and the media?
Wasn't it because Abbott's comment of "sh?t happens" was taken out of context was the reason it was seen as inappropriate to describe the death of a digger so thoughtlessly ? 
 Wasn't it the fault of the independents that the Abbott lead LNP coalition didn't form government after the 2010 election ?
It couldn't have been Abbott's fault that they believed he was untrustworthy could it ?
Wasn't it people in the border protections fault that vessels breached Indonesia's sovereignty ?
You know part of the same team that any allegations of wrong doing made against them disgust the Minister of Immigration.  
Wasn't it at first the fault of an asylum seekers breaking out of detention was why protection wasn't given to him and was why he was murdered?
It's the greens and ALP's fault that when they heard Abbott say "the opposition job in parliament is to oppose" , they didn't realise it only meant when he was in opposition, isn't it ?
It's the public's fault that when they heard, no changes to pensions, no changes to education funding, no changes to medicare,  no cuts to the ABC  that they believed what they heard Abbott say, isn't it?
The polls are suggesting a majority want Abbott and his team gone, surely it isn't  Abbott and his teams fault that they want this, is it Forrest ?
Would you believe it, it's PUP's MP's fault that the Abbott lead ready to govern  government didn't realise that the  changes the PUP party asked for  ( guarantee of taxes no longer paid given back fully to customers)  before the PUP party would support the repeal of the carbon tax needed to be made and voted for in the house of reps first?
I say good on the PUP for adding a date the savings must be passed on by and a penalty if they are not passed on in full by that date when they were informed that the original guarantee they negotiated needed to be passed in the house of reps first.Comon Trent be fair, the last trade deal signed by Abbott should mean lambs have more value and all the Japs will get is a freer market to keep their manufacturing jobs.
All we in Australia have to do is bread lambs that can survive by eating cheap jap cars when there is no other fodder available.Both major parties went to the 2007 election with ETS policy promises. After that election the first bill for introduced for ETS was rejected then eight months was spent negotiating the second bill which both parties had agreed to support.  Then Abbott won his parties leadership and they then withdraw support.
Abbott and the majority of "one" from the LNP in federal parliament ignored those that voted LNP wanting an ETS policy.
Abbott and his party is now complaining that after at most a few weeks of negotiation with the new senate their bills are being rejected. Only if these negotiations had gone on for over 8 months and agreement reached then withdrawn should Abbott and his party be complaining.
If Abbott and his supporters believe they are seen by the people as the self called "adults in charge " they believe they are they should call a DD and win majority in both houses of parliament or start negotiations and expect the same results and frustration of agreements made then being broken. Just like they did to others in government.
How much failure has to occur?
Sensible adults learn from failure and change the reasons they are failing.
Saying plan B is still plan A, suggest no learning is occurring.GDay Forrest
But I am determined to put a price on carbon. This finishes the sentence, mate.
I agree lets move on 
Abbott has said that he would call a DD rather than negotiate with others for governance.
Most of his parties budget has been rejected and his parties measures in regards to the repeal of the price on carbon has been rejected.
He is being forced  to negotiate with others they are not supporting his bills and he will have to receive agreement with them to get the support he wants his government to legislate so he needs to negotiate to govern.
Is Abbott's statement of calling a DD just another lie ?
Bring on the DD and lets move on.GDay FedUpBExpress
The shoot to kill policy in the USA you mention is only used on  those that don't surrender when challenged.Gee John, Ruddock also said that asylum seekers had thrown their children into the sea in protest.
This was a lie, Ruddock lied John.
I don't doubt the fact that some seeking asylum are destroying their documentations but to argue they are all doing without evidence to prove it, is deceitful. Where is your evidence? You are relying on a person who it seems is prepared to  distort facts for as long as possible for his parties advantage.
People are caught drink driving every day does that mean all drivers drink drive ?
Why is it that most question directed to those commenting on the drum that support the Abbott government don't get answered ?
I think I know why John, it's because what they want to be believed as fact are attempts to deceive the true facts.
What do you think the Abbott governments spin doctors do for their  salary?   
No one can argue that questions are being asked from around the world about our governments actions in regards to human rights and obligations agreed too in regard to people seeking asylum. If they are answered by our federal government to often the answers are not seen as satisfactory. 
Good governments give answers that satisfy the questioners, bad governments don't.GDay John 
I believe there could be many reasons why people seeking asylum don't have documents.
I imagine those trying to escape persecution don't ask their persecution for identification papers, can you understand why ?
Just in case you don't understand why I will answer my question for you.
They would not want to draw attention to themselves and their families. They don't want their persecutors to know where they are.
Gees John Indonesia has a combined coastline twice the length of Australia's, can you imagine how hard it would be for the Indonesian government to stop people entering illegally ?
Thousand and Thousands of boats leave and enter Indonesian ports everyday.
Thousands of boats travel the Malacca strait everyday.
Thousands of boats leave and enter Indian ports everyday.
If you show prejudice to others because of their differences without actually knowing them personally you are adding to the number of people persecuting them. 
Showing prejudices against others causes people to seek asylum.
 Do your views of people you don't know show prejudice John?      
Gees John I said in my comment that I didn't dispute that some destroyed their documents but that doesn't mean they all do, is that clear?
John I am prepared to answer any questions you ask with the most truthful answer I can provide, without trying to deceive. Please could you do the same.
Thousands have tried to seek asylum in Australia but you evidence is of how many of them?
It's a well known fact that people take passports of others to control those others, it happens here in Australia too. 
It was reported only a few weeks ago that passports were taken by labour firms employing fruit pickers to prevent them from seeking employment by other firms because they couldn't prove they had working visa's. 
Those seeking asylum in Australia know they will be placed in detention until their claims are assessed, even if they are only coming here for economic reasons having no documentation means they stay in goal longer. They put little money in their pockets in gaol mate.Comon John many  groups are persecuted in India.  Please do some research before you comment John and learn that Sri Lankan Tamil refugees get no rights in India.
If you have no rights you are being persecuted. 
You have a computer connected to the world wide web John, please use it to learn because by not doing so before commenting shows ignorance.
Please try typing into your search engine "Sri Lankan Tamil refugees in India" and use the information provided to learn, it should prevent ignorance.GDAY John
The FACT is that Sri Lankan Tamil refugees in India have no rights. Because they seek refuse from Sri Lanka and they are Sri Lankans not Indians they are persecuted in India by not getting rights.gDAy John
What I refer to as "rights" are well recognised around the world.
Australian law recognises these "rights" I mention.
You don't know about human rights ?
If so, you should apply to be one of the government spin doctors because you would be perfect for the job, I believe. 
Yes Aussie and you receive no refuge status in Australia by only claiming you want a better life.
I have heard that Morrison is disgusted that allegations have been made of human rights abuses by members of operation sovereign borders, yet he will not investigate these allegations.
Which begs the question was he disgusted when allegations were made about abuse occurring in the ADF ?
Was he disgusted when allegations were made about abuse in religious organisations ?
Disgust should only be shown after investigation of allegations not before.  
 Disgust should be shown to anyone who doesn't want to investigate allegations of abuse of human rights.
How our foreign minister can argue that people taken aboard an Australian custom vessel just hour away from landfall and kept in detention for days or  weeks  on this vessel on the high seas is to stop people dying at sea is absurd.
Where is the safe work practice that supports keeping people with little experience or training as mariners at sea can be used to stop them from drowning, Bishop ? 
The Malaysian solution meant that an argument could be made that by coming to Australia by boat meant you were returned to a que which people were chosen from and given asylum.
The PNG solution states coming to Australia by boat means you will be given asylum if found to need it but not in Australia.
Both solutions if implemented gave people asylum.
Turning/towing back boats gives asylum to no one. It doesn't decease the numbers of people whom believe they are in need of asylum. It is not a solution to address the numbers of people seeking asylum.
It hasn't occurred to our PM that mothers are self harming because unlike him they haven't got friends whom give $60.000 scholarships to their children? 
They are self harming because they are desperate to obtain a future for their children free of persecution, like the opportunity their children can get an education  free from threats of death for trying to obtain or being bombed on the way to schoolodr the shop. 
It's the same human rights most of us in Australia have got these people are asking for and they are prepared to harm themselves in attempts to get them for their children, what caring desperate parent wouldn't do the same ?GDay Aussie 
Can you please inform where you have received you information from ?
Actually I believe the the fact is you have only assumptions.
The country of India is know to have many examples of prejudice against others for many reasons.
I found and article written by Alex Pagiliaro published on 11 December 2009 by Amnesty International about Sri Lankan Tamils seeking asylum in India.
I quote this from that article.
"Tamil refugees from Sri Lanka have no rights in India and no real prospects of acquiring them through citizenship."  
Actually it could be argued you have shown ignorance with your claims.
I ask again where do you receive you information from ?GDay burke 
As reported in the article above the Howard government changed the way capital gains tax is calculated which has given an even Greater advantage to those whom have assets which enable them to gain finance where those without these assets don't receive any advantaged if fact they are disadvantaged.
Read the article again, it argues that the other types of investments you mention also need changes of negative gearing and or capital gains tax to make it fairer.If there is a budget emergency, surely investigating ways that those that can afford to pay more pay more is needed, rather than trying to cut finance to those that are struggling to afford basic living expenses.GDay muzzg
Confirmed to day by the navy of Sri Lanka,  41 asylum seekers were transferred from an Australian customs vessel to a Sri Lankan navy vessel. How did these 41 people come to be on an Australian vessel if the asylum seeker boats have been stopped ?
Can you tell me the date the CPRS was repealed ?
It seem what you seem to believe has been done isn't supported by facts.GDay Peter
Is there a law that states which PM's are to be seen as the worst now ?
The Attorney General in the Abbott government has ordered the AFP to raid a law firm which has meant that Australia now has to defended against 2 legal proceedings in the International Court of Justice.
Can you give the number of times Australia has been taken too the ICJ  in the past ? 
Can you number how many times in the past the United Nations world Heritage Committee has rejected proposals from an Australia government ?
Can you inform how many times in the past Australia has had to apologise to it's neighbours for breaching their  borders with Armed Australia Government controlled sea vessels ?
What do you think all these extra spin doctors employed by Abbott's government are doing ?But mick news limited has control of about 59% of all daily newspapers published in Australia. 
You haven't heard of Foxtel and Sky news ?
Do you think the job of Abbott's spin doctors would be to try and distort facts like the ownership of newspapers by including local area newspapers (mostly reporting on local news and published weekly ) and  those published daily in millions per day ?
What do you think the salary of one of the Abbott governments spin doctors would be ?GDay Michael
Will the federal government get their decision right about what to do about financial advice and action to address bad questionable actions by the bank ?
I'm sure the NSW water rate payers are very pleased that some of the money they paid went to a $200,000 salary to a chairman of the board of a company wanting to get water supply contracts for about 200 hrs work. Where he can't remember what was discussed at the meetings he attended.
Would you believe it, some of the water rate payers money was donated to the NSW political party which the chairman of the board was a member. Not only was he a member but he was the treasurer of that NSW political party but he can't remember any decisions made by the board he was chairman to donate the money to the party he was treasurer of, and whilst acting as treasurer he didn't question where these donations were coming from.
Lucky for us, the NSW ICAC exposed what must be judged as bordering on incompetence and a very bad memory, because when they did he was the Assistant Treasurer of the Australian Treasury. 
I worry about the answer to the question I first posed because the government believes the same fellow should get his position as assistance treasurer back.GDay Michael
Will the federal government get their decision right about what to do about financial advice and action to address bad questionable actions by the bank ?
I'm sure the NSW water rate payers are very pleased that some of the money they paid went to a $200,000 salary to a chairman of the board of a company wanting to get water supply contracts for about 200 hrs work. Where he can't remember what was discussed at the meetings he attended.
Would you believe it, some of the water rate payers money was donated to the NSW political party which the chairman of the board was a member. Not only was he a member but he was the treasurer of that NSW political party but he can't remember any decisions made by the board he was chairman to donate the money to the party he was treasurer of, and whilst acting as treasurer he didn't question where these donations were coming from.
Lucky for us, the NSW ICAC exposed what must be judged as bordering on incompetence and a very bad memory, because when they did he was the Assistant Treasurer of the Australian Treasury. 
I worry about the answer to the question I first posed because the government believes the same fellow should get his position as assistance treasurer back.I  agree Dave an RC is needed but we have a government that sacks a commissioner for the disabled but will appoint a commissioner for endangered animals.
Which makes me believe this government of self called adults makes decision by tossing a coin.
The government it seems is happy with the idea that the bank investigates itself.
Marking your own tests, I wish I got to do that when I was at school, I would have been the dux.GDay gbe
Isn't there allegations of advisers employed by the bank  forging signatures ?
Isn't there allegations that the bank deliberately made it difficult to get information and they were not handing over documentation asked for by people tying to find out how their investments were lost ?
The bank was making it difficult to get the information  required for any compensation claims against them.
Adviser were saying invest "here" because "here" was giving them kick backs not because the same adviser believed the "here" was a good investment.
If caught bank robbers go to jail even if they give the money back that they robbed.
ASIC has questions to answer too.Great article Stella, good work.
If only some of the people whom believe they are not disabled could "see" the governments approach and media headline you've mentioned are undeserved attacks on the disabled.
If this government wants to stop rorting it's a pity they wont increase investigation of tax rorters by the same amount they will use to investigate those on DSP.
Then there is doggy entitlements that even those in parliament complaining about budget emergencies show no shame in claiming, it seems they don't want to stop or limit these rorts that they benefit from.GDay so using your own argument shows that your claim that the photo shows only steam being emitting is deceitful.
The photo shows emissions which could be all sorts of pollution.None harry
You are the one claiming that only steam can be seen.
Do you have super powers ?
It could be concrete dust for all you know.
It could be steam with harmful amount of radioactivity for all you know.
It could be steam with dangerous levels of lead or cadmium.

I comprehend that the photo shows 2 exhaust stacks that only  by conducting precise measurements of the exhaust plumes emitted from them could anyone claim what is being emitted out of them.
Can you comprehend that ?GDay Oh Lordy
It hasn't occurred to you that the reason burning fossil fuels is cheaper is because the real cost of the emissions released by using them is not paid ?
It seems the electricity generated by a coal mine in Victoria was not priced high enough to make on old non used section of the coal mine near Morwell safe from fire. It burnt for over a month and the true cost of this uncontrolled fire will never really be calculated. 
In one way or another people from all over Australia will all pay a little bit more because the electricity generated there by burning fossil fuels was not priced high enough.Sorry Oh Lordy but I argue that the true cost of using fossil fuels is not paid which makes them appear to be cheaper. I haven't argued for a massively increase to the tax paid. I argue regardless if there is more tax to be paid on fossil fuels they will still become more expensive in the future if used at the rates of today and the increase cost will not only driven by increases in taxes paid. The  % of tax paid on the petrol/ diesel we use for transportation has not risen since 2002 but the price we pay for the same sure has.  
It can be proven people all over the world including Australia have reduce the cost of the energy they need by investment and use of renewable energy, and the driver to reduce their cost is to reduce overall costs over time. Please type into your search engine "piggeries use renewable energy".
I can't see how you can argue that the cost of carbon has not driven more investment in renewables. You provide no evidence to support your argument.
You read the article above the comments and dispute its figures but don't provide other figures you believe to be true, why ?
I know that carbon emissions have only been taxed in Australia for 2 years. I assume investment in renewable energy would increase the longer emitting CO2 emissions meant paying a price.
I assume that big investments in cleaner energy have not been made because the Abbott lead opposition to every measure except their Direct Action Plan Scam and the almost certain belief they would win governance.
You assume my comment mean things that you have imagined, can you see my assumptions are different to yours ?
I have read your comments above where you wrongly state that the last 2 parliaments have not used respected real economist reports and science to develop their policies.
Have you forgotten the Garnaut report and productivity commission ?  
You claim to want sensible debate but provide no evidence or figures to support your debate.
Sorry mate, I think you are one of the persons whom is screeching rubbish ?Wow you changing you argument again EVAN.
I've read comments by you that state nothing should be done because there is no problem.
I've read comments by you that state no matter what's done a it wont work.
Now you argue that because you believe we don't know what will work we should do nothing.
I think I read in the past that you were involved in IT.
If a computer stops working because of a problem unknown should it be scrapped or should attempts be made to fix it first ? 
It could be because the power supply is not connected properly but because you don't know that is the problem until you  "try" to connect it properly how do you know if that fixes the problem ?   
Most problems are solved by an attempt/s  to  "try" and fix them EVAN. 
GDay Peter
My reading is that there is not one profit making nuclear power plant on the planet.
There are a number that use to generate power but don't anymore, however they do need regular safety checks and security 24 hrs a day and will need both for decades in the future.
There is one though, that has it's own fuel supply and has supplied energy to our planet for billions of years without any requirement of security, it is expected to stay operational for billions of more years too.GDay Damage
Absolutely nothing is what our health service providers will get from the extra $7 most of us will have to pay to see a GP.
Absolutely nothing does this extra $7 do to address the ever increasing cost to or countries healthcare budgets. 
Absolutely nothing is what the unemployed under 30 years old are expected to survive on for six months if there is no places near where they live to learn or volunteer.
Absolutely nothing is provided in the way of affordable housing for those that are expected to move from where they live to a place where they maybe able to learn or volunteer.
Absolutely nothing is provided by this federal governments budget to increase the number of affordable places where unemployed can learn.
Absolutely nothing is what our present PM and his cabinet paid for their higher education.
Absolutely nothing extra are they going to pay for that education which they demand present and future students pay more for.
Absolutely nothing is what is expected in the way of fairness to all, from those in the Liberal and National party and those that support the Liberal, National Coalition.
The statement that the ALP stand for nothing proves that the statement maker shows absolutely nothing but ignorance.
GDay TonyM
Please do some further research and find how increased CO2 levels adversely effects the decision making by those submariners.GDay again tonyM
I see you refer to testimony by Dr Harper given as testimony at the USA Senate Energy Committee in 2002 where he states that there is no doubt that humans have increased atmospheric levels of CO2 by the use of fossils fuels and he admits that increased CO2 levels will cause the planet to warm.
When he mentions CO2 levels in submarines, he gives no reference to any studies.
I'm referring a study preformed by Sr Scientist William Fisk whom it's is recorded has over 30 years researching indoor environmental effects  and Dr Mark Mendell whom has 20 years research in the same area, both employed by Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory co authored  a paper published in the Environmental Health Perspective around September 2012.
My reading suggest that it's believed there has been times in the past where earths atmosphere had concentrations of CO2 20 times higher than today.GDay EVAN 
I think you should look up the definition of pollution ?
By doing so you will learn something that you obviously don't know.
You should also learn about the  "toxic" effects CO2 has against life forms that require free oxygen to survive ?
No one with any expertise  in support of AGW or against AGW is using the argument  that our planet will have a shortage of CO2 to sustain life that uses it to survive, if humans reduced the amounts they emit into the atmosphere.
There is no threat of too little life giving gas we depend on, you refer too. The food that needs CO2 to survive also needs "other things" to survive. The argument is that  to much CO2 in our atmosphere will reduce the amount of these "other things" 
At the moment many life forms both flora and fauna in western QLD are struggling to survive this is not because of lack of CO2  EVAN you do realise that don't you ?
Droughts shouldn't be so devastating in western QLD or almost everywhere else in Australia in 2014 than one hundred years ago, as humans have built hundreds of thousands of water storage areas (Dams and wells ) that were not there 100 years ago.GDay Alfie
Palmer walked away from the meeting knowing anything he was just told or agreed too meant nothing because the person he had the meeting with will do anything but sell his ------. to get support then is just a likely to say "sorry Clive you misunderstood what I agreed too," and renege on any agreements.GDay TreveorN
Ahh yes and we never did find out whom Abbott obtained the finances from to bankroll the legal proceeding against Hanson.
Palmer has since said he was asked by Mal Brough to provide finance for the legal proceedings of Ashbry against Slipper.
Does this hold a clue to the source of the finance Abbott obtained ?  
It's hard to believe that Australia now has a PM who for no other reason than protect losing votes from his party to a competing party is prepared to involve the legal system and trumped up charges.
We rightly criticise the governments of other countries and their leaders for doing the same.
Your arguments are pointless EVAN. 
The governments of the biggest economies on our planet are implementing laws to reduce human produced CO2.Our minister for the repeal of the carbon tax is delighted that this world recognised effective measure to reduce CO2 emissions will be repealed with the vote of the PUP members of the senate.
If we had an environment minister whom was concerned about the environment of our planet he would be concerned that there will be no policy to reduce CO2 emissions in Australia, not delighted.
I suspect our minister for the repeal of the carbon tax will be absent from the next CC summit.
He was absent from the last world meeting and claimed he wanted to be here to support the introduction of the repeal of the price on carbon as the reason. I have seen that he has a problem understanding measurements but surely even he knows what  a majority of numbers in the house of reps means.
His support wasn't needed for the repeal to be introduced  and had he been at that meeting which would have been seen as government business he would have been paired in any divisions. 
I don't believe we have an Adult as Federal Environment Minister but a scared to face his peers fool, who puts money ahead of the environment, every time he makes a decision.GDay barnax 
Surely only law society functions would see more lawyers in the same room than the houses of Australian Federal Parliaments ?
I've just heard Palmer's announcement of what his party will support with amendments and legislated guarantees and heard his party will introduce bills and try to gain to support to have them implemented.
These include the abandonment of Direct Action and legislation of an ETS policy.
Learning of what the PUP will support and try to implement, I foresee the Abbott government has problems ahead  with the changing senate. 
I say bring on a DD Abbott ASAP before your insane policies  liberate me from my job and my friends jobs and try to deceive you way into government again.
GDay EVAN
I think the polls you mention state opinions not my suggestions.
My suggestion is that because Abbott hasn't got the support in the senate to pass the bills he wants to be made into legislation he  should call a DD ASAP to attempt to get MP's elected that will support his parties bills. 
Unfortunately it seems you are correct about Abbott not caring if I don't have a job, I don't think he care if everyone lost their jobs, provided they starve to death quietly and the dead bodies don't disrupt his bike rides.
I like his belief that ships shouldn't be built here because of cost blowouts and time delays, yet he has committed an extra  $12 billion to purchase more jet fighters of the type that's still not operational. These  lemons were to start arriving here in 2012 (10 years after Howard agreed to buy some without consultation with anyone in Australia) but there has been nothing but cost blowouts and time delays. Abbott's response? Lets commit to buy more of them.  This commitment will protect jobs, but I think he is ignorant to the fact it will protect jobs in another country ?GDAy Bill 
Please do some research and read some independent analyst of John Howard federal treasurer between 1975- 1983 and learn about one of Australia worst ever treasurers.
Unlike Swann whom left  steady key figures used to judge the economy Treasurer Howard left figures and an economy  in big big trouble.GDay AE
The sad thing is AE even by posting a list of the last 2 ALP governments infrastructure spending. you would still not acknowledge it. 
In Darwin:
The long awaited extension and widening of Tiger Brennan drive (which for the entire length of Howards reign was marked in our street directories as to be constructed)
New buildings at RDH 
A 24 hour medical clinic at Palmerston 
The building of the new Palmerston hospital was to begin this year
An overpass over the rail line on the road to East Arm port facility.
Security cameras in the city centre 
Over 400 units of new housing for the ADF
new school buildings
An upgrade of the old port area
How long do  you want the list AE ?
Visit Darwin and you may see these investments in infrastructure and the many more not listed.
Give the name of your electorate AE and I'm certain someone living there could provide a list of things that are there in every dimension that it seems you can't see, I afraid.Gee John Are you ignorant to the Fact that the last government stopped the baby bonus?
Are you ignorant to the fact the last government means tested the health insurance rebate?
Are you ignorant to the fact that the last government reduced the 30% tax concession on superannuation investments to 15%
Are you ignorant to the fact that the last government introduced a 15% tax on superannuation earning's when those earnings were over $100,000 / year ? 
All the measures improve structural problems on the budget with no effect on the most disadvantaged. 
Why do you post a lie stating there was nothing done to fix structural problems with the budget by the last government ?GDay burke 
Recent polls suggest they want to  forget about Hockey right now.GDay EEL 
By using recorded history in Australia very little evidence can be found to prove that ALP governments are worst economic managers in government than the other parties.
As reported today despite Palmer confirming he will support the repeal of the price on carbon and MRRT, and with the belief that there will be a 1.5% cut in the company tax rates, BHP is expected to cut 3000 jobs.

Abbott and his party got given government like Fraser did in 1975 claiming the economy was devastated and just like Fraser without any real positive policies and Abbott government has not revealed any positive policies for the economy since.
With another announcement of 3000 more people expected to be liberated from the jobs, lets hope we can quickly liberate Abbott from his and replace him with someone with realistic vision and real plans ASAP.Wow Brian
Whyalla will be written off the map.
legs of lamb will cost $150.00 
Were these false claims made to reassure people ?
Is it selective memories liberal coalition supports have or are they just ignorant ?Wow Brian first you use the argument that the opposition is using scare scare scare and when is pointed out that the last opposition used nothing but scare scare scare you become ignorant to your argument and change to lying the present opposition leader hasn't suggested anything.
I think you should read a bit more and learn that Shorten has said a budget delivered by his government would be seen by the majority as fair and passable by both houses of parliament with little change.
Shorten wants a budget that excepted by the majority of Australian's,  isn't that what democracy deserves ?GDay Ben 
Search and see/hear the answer Abbott gave when asked why his party withdrew support for  the "negotiated" (with his party) ETS policy and you will learn that Abbott said he withdrew support because he believed a tax on carbon would be a better policy. 
I think the only policy negotiated under his leadership was political donations and donation disclosure which he withdrew on the day the negotiated policy was to be introduced to debate, too.
Do we pay our politicians to negotiate policy and make it into legislation or waste our taxes negotiating policy then withdraw support for the policy they negotiated ?But Greig the warming hasn't paused. What is known is that the "rate of increased warming" of the atmosphere has slowed a little bit. Recorded facts provide proof that the atmosphere is still warming. 
The current models are out by one tenth or .1 of a degree Celsius. The observed facts still show a .9 degree Celsius rise in atmospheric temperature. 

Driving a car at different speeds cannot be pausing if some of the speed were slower than others. A pause in the "speed" can be observed. Only if the car stops completely can a pause be observed.
To say there has been a pause in warming is not true, you cant deny this.GDay Ben 
Could you please tell me what happens if our debt isn't repaid ?
What is the date it must all be repaid by ?
What is the date Japan's debt must be repaid ?
Is there a chance that our climate may get so hot that electric power lines will have to have the power shut down to prevent them from failing and starting fires ?
Would this make it harder to payback any debt ?
Will having no debt prevent the climate from becoming so hot and dry that fires will take months to extinguish if it is at all possible ? 
Does Australia's debt cause the ice at the poles to melt and flood low lying inhabited islands and river deltas ?But neil I think environmental activist promote the use of and production of biofuels as they require carbon to be removed from the atmosphere to be produced.
It's the burning of fossil fuels which are in reality biofuels manufactured from  carbon which was removed from the atmosphere a really long time ago are what environmental activist want to stop, because it is realising the safely stored carbon into the atmosphere.
as far as I aware every element in the periodic table is finite. The sun produces energy because of it's huge size, gravity forces 2 hydrogen atoms to fuse into one helium atom no actual hydrogen disappears it just changes into another element and a tiny bit of it is not fused and is the energy we see and feel. The baby grows into the adult not be making elements but by changing them into something else.
I'm sure if you could point to where fossil fuels could be obtained that became fossil fuels in say the last decade many would applaud you.
I say the argument that fossil fuels must be burnt because every other method to obtain power is too expensive is not  true because the full cost of releasing the carbon stored in those fossils isn't paid for in full.Comeon Dazonthecoast if he's rorting the system you can sack him today.
If you are aware he's rorted the system you would have already given the 2 written warnings telling him to stop rorting the system.
Most whom are rorting the system don't fight unfair dismissal if they know you can produce 2 written warnings signed by them. Please do tell why it will take 3 years ?Well dbm if there is robbery involved so should be the police.
No names were mentioned in Dazonthecoast's comment, how do you know who it is being commented about ?Yea burke and a good CEO wouldn't except being paid 10 times as much as his average worker.Ahh John1 I think you are missing the point that the bank CEO salary rose by 30% in one year yet those employed on the lowest wage at the bank got at best a 4% wage increase.
Had those on the lowest wage not receive a pay rise at all, it would be very likely that the bank would have larger profits and the CEO would have had a bigger increase in his salary.
Yes there are more of those workers that received the 4% 
pay increase but there is also more of them spending money at the supermarket (they have too to survive) and this is where most of their 4% went. Most of the 30% wont the CEO got wont be needed to be spend at the supermarket for him to survive. There is a real consequence of the CEO's pay increase because of it being much higher than the inflation rate it adds  to the inflation rate. Because the CEO got 25% more than the inflation rate the bank needs to produce 2 million more to increase next years profit. 
As the facts record, it's not the workers that have seen huge increases in their pay rates, which are on par with inflation but the senior management have had rises 10 times more than inflation.
Huge profits aren't made buy selling things to the countries with the lowest paid workers.
We could all work for $2 per hour but that wont stop them over there from stealing our market by working for $1 per hour.
Ahh john1 regulations had to be changed because they allowed some  CEO's and senior management to decided their own salary increases.
I'd say they have work ways around that regulation and no doubt helped formulate it so this could happen.
I think the CEO being an employee would be cover by the minimum wage too.
The companies wage burden isn't lowered if the CEO get a 30% wage increase.
I believe the average wage rise by those not in senior management should be the rise that senior management receive. If its $50/ week that's what their salary increases by.
There is no law which states their trolleys can't be filled with homebrand.But john1 do the people at the bottom decided whom is employed at the top ?
Who do the people at the bottom see to have the bad performer at the top changed ?GDay Waterloo
I believe that would mean re-writing the constitution.
I do believe that last government wanted to start that process by having local governments (local councils) recognised in the constitution.
Which would be the first step needed to implement your proposal of eliminating one form of government.
 Can you remember what happened ?
GDay TJ and Sir Trent 
Before the last N.T. election the CLP campaigned with 5 promises.
Number one was; Reduce cost of living pressures.
Within eight weeks of gaining office they passed legislation to increase the cost of electricity by 30% and water by 40%.
Which does make many wonder what would have been legislated had they not wanted to reduce cost of living pressures ?But sidlaw it's never been a secret.
Economist have always argued that it would drive inflation but I believe they are reviewing this belief because of what has happened in the USA in the last 5 years.
I believe lack of a sovereign currency was one of the reason Greece could not adjust its currency and become more competitive with it's major GDP earner being tourism.
This is a reason why Australian debt can't be compared to Greece debt, also unlike Greece who's major asset hundreds of  beautiful islands to holiday on ( GFC meant many cancelled holidays ) Australia also has billions of dollars worth of mineral assets and huge agricultural assets. Unlike Greece Australia doesn't need to import energy to keep it's people warm.
 If Greece reduced the value of the Drachma, more drachma's would have been needed to pay for the needed imported energy.What is the problem if it's a debt which can be managed?
Why can't the next million generations of Australians live happy healthy prosperous lives with debt.
The present government wants your grand children to go into huge debt for a university education on the gamble that they may obtain a career with that education. Your children may get a law degree but the only job they can find is holding a stop go bat at a road construction site and if this job earns them more than $50,000/year they will have to payback the cost of the law degree.
When the Howard government obtained a surplus were people needing hip  replacements waiting for this hip replacement because there were not enough affordable operation theatres beds ?
Were our schools turning out the best educated children in the world ?
Were businesses sorting through thousands of job applications from Australians with the skills and education the businesses wanted ? 
Can you tell me why with Howards surplus and eleven years of government business still need to import skilled workers on 457 visa's when thousands of Australian were without work ?
Can you tell me why the Howard government changed 457's so that employers no longer need to prove that there were no Australians to fill the jobs they wanted filled with 457's ?
Would you prefer a government with a surplus in the treasury and the need for your grandchildren to be standing on the bumper bar at the rear of the bus to get to school because there are not enough buses to transport the children inside a bus, or a treasury with manageable debt  and your grand children traveling to school inside the bus ?
Can you give me a round figure of how much it will cost me to connect to the node with fibre for my internet connection ?
Can you give me a round figure on the cost of an engineering degree obtained in a  University if they are open to charge what ever they wish and there is no restrictions on how many from overseas that can buy every seat available ?  
When will Japan be wiped of the map because it's debt it to high ?GDay SVJ 
No Rudd warned it could mean trouble between Australia and Indonesia.
I also remember that many now in the government stated that Indonesian sovereignty would be respected.
I suppose we have to consider it lucky that when our armed vessels breeched Indonesian sovereign waters unannounced and uninvited their crews were not imprisoned or worst still the vessels  shelled/ torpedoed by the Indonesians as would be their legal right.Yea John Costello did, but he also left children being educated in temporary class rooms. He also left not enough hospital beds in areas that needed them badly. He also left transportation networks that were overloaded. 
My budget will be much further into the black if I don't replace the bald tires on my transport, until they no longer hold air. Then my budget will be blown because I have to have my transport towed to Bob Jane.  
Keating legislated a method to decrease the amount government would need to find to finance people in old age. Howard didn't work with this and decrease that  amount some more. His only change to it was to turn it into a "tax dodge" for people that wouldn't  need to be funded by tax payers in old age, which meant those that will need funding have less funding available.Ahh Harry up the page here we have Forest saying labor blame everyone else.
Then we have you here saying Bill Shorten and his crew are at fault.
The LNP coalition didn't get enough people to vote for their senate team and PUP hold the balance of power in the senate. This is Bill Shorten and his crews fault, why?
Lot of government have returned to the polls in attempts to get the numbers to pass policy which was being blocked in the senate. Most drop the unpassed policies and start again with similar and what they believe is more supportable policy.   
 In the senate there is nearly always a need to "negotiate". Howard "negotiated" with the democrats to pass the GST legislation. He had to "negotiate" with Senator Brian Harradine to legislate the sale of Telstra. 
The Rudd government passed an ETS policy through the lower house but not the senate. Then after "8 months of negotiations" with the Turnbull lead coalition opposition an "agreement" was made on an ETS policy which the Turnbull lead opposition was going to pass through the senate. On the morning "the new negotiated" policy was to be introduced in the lower house, the coalition opposition had a meeting and changed leaders. The new leader informed that there now would be "no support" for any ETS policy.
When asked by the media, why ? Abbott said that they believed a carbon tax would be a better policy.     
Bill Shorten has given this advice to Abbott's government;
Drop the budget measures that you wont get passed through  the senate and negotiate a mini budget that will.
Nick Xenophon has said the government must learn to negotiate.
Harry, most of Hockey's budget has passed through the senate with ALP's "support". Supply has not been blocked. 

Those that negotiate a policy (similar to what that they campaigned with) for 8 months, reach agreement, then withdraw that agreement should have been removed from parliament at the next election for wasting parliamentary time and tax payers moneys. 
Can you believe that we are still paying them ? 
Most of them have been in a job which requires debate and negotiation, for years but as Senator Xenophon has said "they will have to learn how to negotiate".
"If our budget isn't passed we will find other ways that will not need to be passed by the senate" isn't talk of negotiation, Harry.
Drop the measures that don't have support and negotiate other measures and introduced them in a mini budget, is a hand offered by Shorten and his crew, whom have nothing to be ashamed off.Yes waterloo they did. they also said they could do it by cutting waste and not take more money from peoples pockets.
I heard someone asked Abbott "How will you do this without cuts, cuts, cuts." He answered "Doesn't he every shut up "? 
Don't be deceived if the budget measure regarding the fuel excise is passed it will be linked to CPI again. This tax will rise every time CPI rises by the amount CPI rises. At our average CPI rate in 10 years time (if unchanged ) the tax we pay on fuel will rise be about 25% more + 2.5% more GST on this tax.  
We will never help employers employ with a wage being paid by the employer to the employee, by supplying them with free to them, workers. 
Who will want to employ and train child bearing age women, if they will be able to leave work for half a year ? Then half a year, nine months later etc. If these women are on wages of less than $100,000/ year, they wont lose any money taking six months maternity leave.  
Why not tax polluters so that those that pollute less will be able to sell cheaper products because they will pay less tax ?  Those polluters wanting to pollute less will employ people to install less polluting infrastructure.
Why not tax mining companies which are making large profits so they re-invest more of their profits therefore pay less tax ?  This re-investment will create more jobs.
How is some one whom has been unemployed for up too six months without any support, going to pay you to have their shoes shined for a job interview they can't afford to pay the transportation cost to go too ?Gday Gordon
I see that there are many that are a little ignorant of what is in the Hockey budget.
You should learn as it stands now the GP co-payment only has a $70/year limit to individual children under the age of 16 years and pension card holders. The chronically ill don't have to pay any GP co-payment but the policy doesn't say whom is allowed to assess someone as chronically ill. All others pay $7 every visit which means 20 visits $140 dollars.
20 visits isn't that uncommon  when getting medications shorted. 
 
You should learn that if the budget measures regarding the fuel excise are passed this excise paid rises with CPI again and a 10% GST will be paid on the any increase caused by CPI rises.
Which means if the CPI (inflation ) rises by 3% each year  fuel tax will rise by 3% . Therefore a total of 3.3% rise on taxes will be paid if the CPI of 3 %. Please be warned this is just the tax on fuel, not the cost the fuel companies charge for it.
Surprise ! Believing that there will only be 40 cents a week increase if fuel costs is what a deceitful government has deceived you into believing. 
Surprise ! Believing that the most paid by the GP co-payment is $70/ year is what a deceitful government has deceived you into believing.Gee Peter you don't mean those Chinese that bought all that  Iron ore from us ?
Or all that coal, wool, cotton, beef, lamb, lobsters etc  ?
I wonder if they got the money to buy these things from us by selling us things ?
Do you think any gold mined in Australia get sold in India ?GDay Warshawski
I see many have forgotten that the banks were not cutting their interest rates the full percentage points that the RBA had cut.
The government should have waited until unemployment figures reached what percentage before implementing more stimulus ?
What countries didn't see a huge drop in manufactured exports ? Even the poster boy Germany saw a 20% drop in export numbers.
It seems government measures which allowed business to write of much of their upgrading of machinery has been missed too ?

I also note that Breg has made no comparisons e.g. USA interest rates at 0% +government stimulus = much improved employment numbers now, on improving economic conditions.
Eurozone interest rates 0% + austerity = still very high unemployment numbers now, still very poor economic conditions and still very high debt numbers too.
It seems France  the energy supplier to Europe poster boy many like to brag about, isn't doing to well in economic improvement, maybe Chris could explain why ?
Ahh Richard do we not trade with those whom experience the "really a Atlantic " crisis ?
Don't all our trading partners trade worldwide ?
The GLOBAL financial crisis saw many countries go into recession and have unemployment rates rise over 10%, even China, hence the $370 billion US stimulus package implemented there. 
Given that the Australian unemployment rate was kept below 6%, and the economy never stopped growing, what would you describe as value in a GLOBAL financial crisis which saw trade figures around the planet plummet ?
Care to quote the reasons given explaining  why the French government has resigned ?Gee AE I delivered building products made from Bluescope steel products to builders, building infrastructure on school grounds. This infrastructure will be utilised on those grounds for decades. Those bluescope products were manufactured by using materials that were mined from mines just like the one you work in. Those builders were able to use the profits made whilst building those school halls to purchase other products that require the materials that you mine.
Had there been no government stimulus more mine workers  would have been laid off because less minerals would have been needed because there would have been less demand for them.
Australian government stimulus did protect jobs in the Australian mining industry, even if it was spent on products manufactured in China and purchased here in Australia with the money supplied by the stimulus. More products sold by China means they require more minerals, i.e. demand.
Why can't you understand that ?Ahh Who thinks that AE ?
Our governments debt doesn't need to be paid totally paid by any date.
The Japanese government  has 5 times more debt than the Australian government, they have had this debt for years.
Yet more than likely some of the minerals the mining company that employs you are sold to the Japanese.
Just like Japan could, Australia could pay back the debt we have now, within a year, by using the money paid on pensions and government employees etc, but it would mean or economy would be devastated  and people would starve to death.
Mate, thousands of generations of Australian could live happy and prosperous lives with debt as long as it is managed.
Australia could have 5 times the debt it has today and still manage that debt. Even if a country can't pay the bills it's people don't get evicted from the country.Gday Mike
Do you mean drowning's in the seas between Indonesia and Australia ?
Has he stopped the need some have to seek asylum ?
I believe so far this year and "extra" 1 million humans have fled their homes trying to escape war and persecution, could you please inform how many "extra" humans the Australian government will allow to escape by coming to Australia ? 
You don't think there are asylum seekers struggling to stay alive somewhere ?What reality would that be Damage ?
The reality that completely tax funded health systems like experienced in Scandinavian countries provide better health care outcomes to the entire populations than the private system employed by the USA for example ?
Gees The Other John that a hard one to answer, but I have a go.
How about not repealing the MRRT ?
How about legislating an ETS scheme so that government revenue isn't needed for a direct action plan ?
How about not legislating a cut in company tax rates ?
How about not repealing the means testing of the health insurance rebate ?
I do believe the measures mentioned above hold some of the clues the ALP would employ to address the budgets imbalance ?
You do realise why Ken Henry was asked to review the tax revenue collection don't you ? I do believe it was to find suggestions to balance future budgets.
I do believe the reason an ALP government introduced compulsory superannuation contributions was to reduce the amount of money needed for old age pensions in the future ?
Can you tell me what the LNP coalition governments had done to reduce the money needed in the future apart from making older people work longer whilst our younger population are having lots of trouble finding jobs ?
How about leaving the deceit tax in place until the budget is back in the black ?
How about changing the rules on politicians expenses claims so that going to another MP's wedding cannot be claimed as a travel expense for MP's ?No jgm, the fact that fuel excise is increased by CPI increases again ( was frozen at 38cents per litre and then therefore was a brake on inflation pressure ) and then the CPI increases in fuel excises are taxed again by the 10% GST. 
The one cent you mention is in reality is 1.1 cents and this extra cost will rise with CPI.
But Zaphod there isn't an economist in Australia the believes the present government has got their sums right on the Direct Action Plan. Many believe that the PPL scheme is going to be badly underfunded. There was a huge over 10 billion dollar hole in Hockey's figures which was found after the 2010 election, and we still haven't been told were the $2.9 billion will be found for "direct action" 
 
Treasury has presented figures which state that those with  less are hit the hardest by the budget. i.e. those with the weakest back carry the most.  
If governments are going to struggle to find the revenue to pay for services in the future, why cut tax rates for companies ?
Why keep tax cuts which were put in place to compensate for the price on carbon when there is no price on carbon ?
Why repeal MRRT ? 
You do realise that Costello didn't get many of his budget figures correct and because of the very good (unpredicted ) growth in the world economy, thus given Australia good balance of trade figures (Australian economy is very reliant on export figures ) his treasury collected more than was expected. 
Not sure if you noticed but world trade was very volatile over the years Swan was treasurer. In 2010 it was believed the GFC was over.Gee John the figures for the last financial year ending 30th June 2014 show government spending reduced to just over 24 % of GDP. I don't believe any of the Abbott governments legislation reduced any spending before the end of June 2014. Who's policies must have reduced spending by about 2% of GDP ?Ahh Zaphod I see the French government has just resigned claiming that the deficit  reduction programs used by the  Eurozone countries has not worked and has crippled economic growth there.
What are these solutions you talk about ?
Would they be to take money from those that put all the money they receive back into the economy and have them begging for food because they have no money ?
But Zaphod the Opposition has asked the government to scrap the budget measures which it can't negotiated through the senate and have a mini budget with negotiated measures that they support.
It's the plan B is Plan A government stance which has stalled negotiations.
When has it been the oppositions obligation to frame budget measures ? 
Why isn't keeping the MRRT seen as a reasonable alternative ?
You don't think special interest groups are fighting to have MRRT repealed by any chance do you ? You don't think there was a Me me me me chant coming from someone in W.A. ? 
Why isn't keeping the 15% tax on superannuation  "profits" over $100.000/ year seen as a reasonable alternative ? 
You don't think special interest groups fought to have this tax repealed by any chance do you ? Maybe more Me me me chanting perhaps ?But Waterloo most households would like to be earning amounts that would require them to pay a billion dollars per day in tax.
One crazy government allowed the wealthiest households in Australia to claim a 30% rebate on private health insurance costs.
The same crazy government gave thousands of dollars to people with millions of dollars for the birth of each child they had. 
When a sensible government attempted to remove these unneeded burdens on all Australians (net tax payers or not ) some crazies opposed it.  
The facts in Australia state that the wealthy have become wealthier, not that their wealth has been taxed away.
Wow Waterloo I heard Glen Stevens say that the budget imbalance must be address. I didn't hear him say there was an emergency though.
I didn't hear him say that all the measures in the current budget must be legislated either.
Tell me did shorten call for an emergency meeting of the Sate and Territory leaders ?
I do remember those leaders came out of that meeting with the belief that the Abbott government was using a "deceitful"  backdoor approach trying to force them into calling for an increases of the GST.
It's the treasury that has released the figures that show that those with the least will be worst off by over $800/ year but those with the most will only worst off by about $600/year.
Tell me whom do you think returned the most to the economy ?
a) those that spend every dollar received back into the Australian economy for food and housing and transport.
b) those that can afford to go overseas with one near empty suitcase then bring back 3 full suitcases of items purchased overseas. 
By the way how was you trip to Europe, did you do some duty free shopping whilst on it ?Well Waterloo I can provide many examples from history that record those that don't share the wealth end up poorer (usually murdered ) because they didn't.
Those desperate Aussie retailers are only going to become more desperate if wealth is shared amongst the many. 
GDay Charles 
Easy solution would be to have another election.
This has happened many times in the past when the governments have had trouble with the numbers.Gday AE
But don't the facts show that during the Hawke/Keating years more people per population became home owners than at any time before or after those years ?
Home loan interest rates did rise to 18% but they were on a downward trend when Keating was voted out. So were the inflation figures.  Not so Howard.
Unemployment numbers were falling too. They weren't moving in any direction when Howard was sacked.
In my view Keating left Howard with an improving economy.
Howard didn't leave Rudd with an improving economy although the world was experiencing the best growth that had been seen since the rebuilding after the 2WW, Howard left our economy at best stagnant tipping towards trouble in the future.
Howard had more than $300 billion to spend on things like NBN and NDIS but spent it on things like baby bonuses and making private healthcare a public expense. He gave tax cuts whilst hospital queues were increasing in length. The population was increasing and with more becoming older and needing more healthcare because of their age , Howard reduced increases in health funding which hurt those with less to spend on it.
Keating's plan of compulsory superannuation ( a sovereign wealth fund ) was that the amount to be compulsory to rise.
Howard didn't legislated any rises but made legislation that made superannuation into a way wealthy could avoid paying taxes. Wow, there will be trouble in the future funding old age pensions, what did Howard do to alleviate the trouble ? 
So far Abbott hasn't given any indication he want to help lift those doing it tough. He wants to make it tougher for them.
In my view tough love shouldn't involve neglect and any that argue the should be an end to entitlements should start with the entitlements they receive first. 
Any whom argue there is a budget emergency shouldn't send an empty Air Force publicly paid for plane to WA  to transport 37 others that say their is a budget emergency to Canberra when there are seats on existing flights which would cost half the price. 
What you don't think people were squealing when interest rates were 18% ? They were mate and to many were doing it tough, the government at the time used policy to easy the pain not increase it.Ahh Yes AE economies all around the world were experiencing strong growth but I don't think it had anything to do with Howards management.
He had the Australian economic growth about par with the rest of the world but had inflation rising because he put $300 billion it to the hands of the people (many didn't spend it too wisely ) with tax cuts to buy votes but left education, healthcare and infrastructure wanting.Ahh AE  the Global Financial Crisis. It effect world trade. Australia trades with other countries in the world, these countries trade with Australia and other countries around the world. 
As you have mentioned you saw loads of people in your industry lose their jobs. Were they losing their jobs in the time of the biggest mining boom in history ?
Howard's  time economy growing at same pace as almost every other country in the world.
Swann's time many many countries in recession.
Our largest trading partner Japan went into recession not long after the GFC ( 4th quarter of 2008 fall of 12.9% of GDP) so did one of our other largest trading partners the USA. Australian didn't go into recession. Australia's unemployment figures didn't go to 10%.Well AE are you prepared to name the electorate that town is in so we can inform of what benefits the stimulus provided to that electorate ?
I can say this with confidence because I know for a fact that every electorate in Australia received some infrastructure funding.Gees AE can't you see the more than $370 billion US China stimulus package to protect jobs was the same method that was used by Swann.
Please do some research and look at the numbers they show that it was believed  (worldwide) in 2010 that the GFC was over and growth in trade was to start again. This belief only lasted for a few months. 
Our largest trading partner China had growth figures of over 10% before the GFC this figure dropped below 7% and have improved slightly to 8%. Just a few months ago China announced a rise in manufacturing figures for the first time since 2010. China experienced a huge drop in manufacturing figures in 2008 there was no increase in the numbers until 2010 when they increased slightly (not to pre 2008 figures) then they fell again until a few months ago. They are still below pre 2008 figures. To this day the GFC is still effecting world trade. The USA is still using stimulus measures to protect jobs in the USA as is Japan and many other countries.
You can read the media releases by the RBA to learn of why they saw a need to rise interest rates.
Please do so and learn of the reason why the RBA changed interest rates.
 I spent some time reading federal house of reps Hansard a few weeks ago and learned  every measure to stimulated the economy had argument  against it by the LNP MP's from the first piece to the last. To believe they were worried about your work colleagues that lost their jobs wasn't evident in any of the arguments I read. All their arguments were about money money money not jobs. Money stuffed under the mattress doesn't provide jobs mate. It was learned from the great depression that borrowing money to provide employment got nations out of the depression faster than not doing the same.
Did the last ALP governments make some mistakes ? Yes they  did, but as the figures show it's lack of revenue that has hurt budgets, increasing the numbers of unemployed doesn't increase revenue.Gee AE I do believe more than 700,000 homes have cheaper energy bill now too.
How much has the 5th inquiry into the home insulation scheme cost ?
 You know the royal commission that the Abbott government took money from the royal commission into child abuse from 
to provide it with more funds.
I wonder how many of those abused children turned into arsonist or took the own lives because of the abuse?
We will never know because funding was stripped from the royal commission into child abuse.Well AE 
Your job was saved by the governments in those countries overseas that borrowed billions to keep their workers employed and those workers children will have to pay that debt back too.
China's stimulus package because of the GST was over $300billion US. This went on top of that governments massive spending programs.Yes AE I believe every Hwy in Australian is a federal funded road network. The stimulus provided by the previous ALP governments funded a much need overpass on the Stuart Hwy  at Palmerston which was marked as a proposed roads in our street directories for the entire time Howard was PM. Remember the surpluses and how many have said that infrastructure for the future was not funded from those surpluses ? Darwin's and Palmerston's populations are increasing, ALP funded many other road infrastructure up grades to deal with this growth. The Budget delivered by Hockey had no increases for road funding in the N.T.
As far as I aware the PM' whom wants to be known as the Infrastructure PM has only given a $10 million increase on the already budgeted by the ALP government's $70 million for the new hospital in Palmerston and that the only infrastructure extra funding the N.T. received.    
The sometimes 3 kilometre long queue of cars which use too bank up at the old traffic light at Palmerston  (now no longer needed and removed  ) flows steadily there now.Ahh AE with a so called "budget emergency" the Abbott government has sent empty air force planes from the eastern states to W.A. to bring back politicians. They could have travelled on scheduled domestic flights in business class at half the cost. Only coalition MP's were allowed to fly on the air force plane others had to fly domestic.
Is that the sort of  "value for money"  you comment about ?Yea Tator I remember states were struggling to fund every thing not rolling in cash. The states and territories populations had risen the ageing population had put pressure on their health budgets all the while the LNP federal government was cutting increases in funding. This causes a walkout of a COAG meeting if you remember ?
 Returning tax revenue to buy votes was more important to the LNP federal government  than increases to funding for the states and territories.
They were blaming the states or not managing money the right way. Yet I remember when one state closed down a service in a hospital and their plan was to increase the same service in a hospital just 50 Kilometres away to save money and the need of duplication of resources, because it was in a marginal federal seat the federal government took over the hospital then found they didn't have the doctors to keep the service going ? 
Gee eh the lack of resources was a problem after all. 
It seems the states and territories were only suppose too save money in electorates the  LNP federal government wasn't  worried about losing votes in. 
I especially liked the interview done with the then health Minister Tony Abbott in 2005 when he was asked why when campaigning for the 2004 election he said there was an "absolute rock solid,  iron clad commitment" to keep the   Medicare safety net at $300,  yet it was raised to $500.
Seems in 2005 we learnt that an "absolute rock solid, iron clad commitment" meant nothing when it came from the mouth of Tony Abbott. 
Some of us remember any commitments by Tony Abbott were worth sweet bugger all (especially if "absolute rock solid, iron clad commitments", meant nothing ) before the last election, others have realised this since.Mmm Waterloo 
In July the federal minister for health says there will be no compromise with the GP co-payment.
The treasury says there will be no compromises and there are other ways to cut spending which bypass the decisions of democratically elected MP's.
The minister for education says their will be no compromises.
In August the minister for health says the government will  consider a compromise on the GP co-payment.
The treasurer asks those  opposing measures in the budget what they are their suggestions to cut budget spending.
The education minister says nothing in his portfolio is set in concrett.
Gee mate can you remember the debate before the last election when Rudd said "You will have to cut cut cut other services to fund your promises" Abbott replied "doesn't he ever shut up "
After less than one year in government you want the ALP whom is in opposition to write a budget for the government?
Were would they get money from ? Try MRRT and an not cutting the company tax rate for starters. An ETS would mean there wasn't an need to fund the direct action plan too.GDay Zing
Wasn't the entry into politics because what he thought he had bought from the Liberals, Nationals or Country party was not being delivered ?
If I remember correctly there was a fallout with Abbott long before the fallout with Newman.Gday dmans5 
I do believe Swann promised one surplus ?
You should check the record of treasury Howard and learn how many surpluses he promised but didn't deliver. 
You do realise the government surpluses are not very common ? Governments around the world rarely have surpluses and they are often produced when vital infrastructure and needs of the populace are neglected.
A  surplus in the governments treasury usually doesn't last long when all the taxpayers spend hours and hours trying to get to their place of employment because vital needs for infrastructure for transportation wasn't funded.
Health cost usually increase when treatment is delayed at early stages and then require more extensive treatment and more expensive and more medications.
 I can remember State and Territory leaders walking out of a GOAG meeting because of the reductions in increases to the health budgets were to be enforced by a LNP coalition federal government.
I can't remember this ever happing under an ALP federal government.
Until this year I've never heard of State and Territory leaders having an emergency meeting because of what they had learnt of from the release of the federal budget.
I get the impression that LNP federal governments don't recognise that their decisions on how to produce federal treasury surpluses can often have a bad effect on the budgets of the States and Territories. 
I think good governance wouldn't have others in other governments having emergency meetings about it decisions ?
I believe the best governments have balanced  budgets and stores of sovereign wealth like gold and increase the moneys put towards superannuation funds  when times are good and don't neglect infrastructure.
Bad governments cut taxes while the States  and Territories governments  are struggling to balance their budgets because of cuts to the increases needed from the federal budget.
They also don't use the good times to increase sovereign wealth by increasing the amounts to be paid into superannuation funds for the future and change these funds into tax reduction loop holes for wealth people.
I believe bad governments change the rules for 457 visa's so that employers no longer need to prove there is a worker shortage before being able to import a worker from overseas to fill a vacant position.
When was labors last surplus ? Federally 1986 I think ?
When was there no waiting lists for surgery at hospitals ?
When was the last time a school wasn't in need of another classroom or teacher or teachers aid ?
When was the last time federal funded roads and railroads were not in urgent need of repair ?
When was the last time every International Airport in Australian had more capacity than was needed ?
What would you prefer a federal government surplus or an available bed in a hospital for a very sick relative ?GDay Forrest 
If I remember correctly the only country which wasn't experiencing good economic times between 2000 to 2007 was Zimbabwe  
China's growth was between 10 to 15% during this time.
Was it  Howard/Costello's managing of the Australian economy which produced China's huge growth figures ? Was it their management that was the reason every other country but Zimbabwe as experiencing good growth figures ?
 Mmm if I remember correctly, after the GFC many many countries economies went into recession, China's growth dropped below 7% and hasn't risen much above 8% since.
Australia was one of a few countries that didn't go into recession. 
Who would be better managers of the economy ?
a) Those that produce nothing more than what the world economy was experiencing? i.e. about 3% growth.  
b) Those that avoided the recession most of the world was experiencing ?   
Please don't answer "but borrowed money" because the USA and many other countries used borrowed money yet still had recessions.
Treasurer Swann promised the budget would be in surplus in 2012-13 he was wrong.
Treasurer Howard promised surplus for 1976-77,  77-78, 78-79, 79-80, 80-81 he didn't deliver one surplus.
I do believe predicting surplus in Australia is very reliant on world trade because of the high reliance on world trade by the Australian economy.Well harry with a non compliant senate and a government that believes that only by implementing their policies in full will improve the economy and with your belief that the majority of voters support them, lets have a DD and allow the voters decide if the self called "adults" have the majority in support.
Abbott wont be able to lie "no changes to pensions, no cuts to education spending, no changes to health care costs, no new taxes" if he has us return to the ballot box this time though. 
It such a pity that Abbott stated "the biggest deficit the ALP  had was a deficit of trust."
Remember that when you hand over the extra $10K you say is  what you have been made too pay as your share of heavy lifting. By the way is that extra $10k a permanent payment every year until legislation changes it ?Gday Alfie
Please can you inform where are the more expensive retail outlets that the wealth must by law  purchase from ?
Is there a law that states the wealthy must buy more expensive goods  and therefore are made to pay more GST ?
I think it was last year when I learnt that a very highly paid politician getting a very good living away from home allowance whilst living in a home belonging to one of his family members had purchased particular bed sheets "because they were on special."
Being on special would mean less GST was paid than if they weren't on special.
I think your comment should read. 
On a per capita basis, mid-high income earners 'could' afford to buy more expensive items and if they did they would pay a GST of 10% on the cost like all others whom purchase items which attract GST.
I know a few millionaires here in Darwin that drive old Toyotas and buy their lunch at the same lunch shop where I buy my lunch. Wearing clothes very similar to the clothes I wear, which aren't expensive. I often see them at the all you can eat for $20 restaurant (crab night is Friday night ) eating their evening meals.
I'd say the only difference in their spending habits to mine would be the once every 2 year they have a 6 month holiday in Europe and every dollar  they spend over that 6 month long period in Europe doesn't have 10% Australian GST cost added to it. They leave for this holiday with one suitcase but always seem to bring 2 or more back again.
Did you see the 2 multi millionaires fighting in Bondi a few months ago ? It sure didn't look like they were wearing one off designer tracksuit pants and tee shirts. If they eat cornflakes for breakfast in the morning is there a law that states these cornflakes must be the most expensive money can buy ? 
Because they spend more should read "because they have more to spend, 'they might' pay more GST.Gday John
many year ago I thought about buying a sailing yacht in Indonesia and bringing it back to Australia. I did some research and found out that duties would have to be paid on what customs believed the yacht would be worth and this would probably mean no money was saved by buying in Indonesia.
At about the same time I learnt that a certain multi millionaire in based in Perth (where a famous yacht race was to be held in a few months time ) had purchased a huge motor yacht which had a heli pad from overseas and imported it to Australia. I was told that no duties were paid for this yacht because he had said it was a portable helicopter landing area not a luxury motor yacht. There were no laws in the book about floating helicopter landing pads. I imagine the books change now ?
The point I try to make is that it seems that those with lots of money always seem to find ways to avoid paying taxes even goods and services taxes I'm afraid.
Can you remember the talkback radio presenter whom had the brand new expensive motor vehicle he was driving around in taken back (after may complaints about what he had said at a political party meeting ) by the manufacturer whom had given it to him freely as an advertising campaign ?
I don't think any GST was paid by anyone for the use of that car because no money had change hands ?GDay Eel123 
Please can you inform whom did this research you mention was it the salvation army or some very profitable accountancy firms ?
Was there any research done on where the extra millions the UK government received in taxation had come from ?
I wonder why the boss of a certain bank in Australia accepted an increase of 2 million dollars more than what he was paid last year ?
There was a large wealthy land holder in WA who's son negotiated a really good did a deal on some mineral leases, this son's  offspring now is one of the richest persons in Australia. The deals done by the son mean that his offspring earns more in a year than many of us would in a lifetime.
Could you please explain what work the offspring must do to get the rewards negotiated by the son ?Ahh Greig the latest figures for new energy investment in China are about 40% for fossil fuels and 60% for renewables and nuclear. In magnitude its hydro that has seen the greatest increases in capacity, not coal.
Combine the investment in new wind and solar and their capacity out strips new coal fuel capacity in China. 
China aims to not require any new investment in coal in ten years time.
Gee Greig, I'd invest in a solar powered stove and a shower that uses sunlight to heat the water.  Leave a 10 metre long black hose out in the sunlight with the nozzle end closed and the other end connected to open water supply and after 3 hours open the nozzle end so that the water coming from it sprays onto your private parts, I bet you'd say "wow that water is hot " 
You can live in a cave if you wish, but I'd rather live in a house that is powered by renewable energy. 
There are houses  with sufficient power supplies all around the world that don't require any fossil fuels for their power supply.
There is an odd thing about many living trees? It is they can provided fuel for decades and they often can replace the fuel by new growth which requires carbon to be taken from the atmosphere take place.  
Funny thing about trees, is that they require the right climate conditions for individual species to thrive. Hench the reason why many deserts aren't covered by 80 metre tall trees.
I do believe one of the reason the experts on climate suggest we reduce emissions caused by burning fossil fuels, is to protect those climates where trees can grow to 80 metres tall.
In the old  days if those that lived in caves did things that were destructive to the environment around those caves they had to move to other caves to survive. Where do you suggest we moved too if we are too destructive to our planets environment ?Gday Rowley 
Please can you Inform me where permanent radioactive waste storage sites are around the world ?
Is there an abundance of these sites ready to store radioactive waste ?
Do they cost a lot of money to develop and maintain ?Gday Bulldust 
You must have missed Mr Xi Pings pledge to have 20% of China's energy needs supplied by renewables by 2030.
What would that 20% of renewable energy work out to be, more than 100 times as much as the total energy used in Australia ?
How many windmills will China be erecting in China I wonder ?
Would that be because she not stupid or she's gullible ?
You forgot to mention how many coal fired generators are decommissioned in China every week or 2, Why?
More than 58 closures over the last few years, I believe.Come on Neo
Next you will be implying that sunlight is a true gift from nature that provides natural energy too.
Don't you realise that a big rock of coal on our lawn provides ??? provides you with a big rock of coal on your lawn. 
I suppose it also means less energy is required to mow the lawn because a big rock has covered some of it.Gday Gumlas
Andrew has also forgotten to factor in the cost of mining for radio active fuel it gets more expensive as the fuel becomes hard to extract, and the dangers and environmental damage mining causes.
There is a mine not that far from where I live that after heavy rain often shuts down  because the rainwater fallen has become toxic because of radioactivity.
The operators of the mine state that no toxic water runoff reaches waterways but can't pump out the mining area because their storage ponds are full. So mining stops until the sun causes the storage ponds water to evaporate.GDay Bev
For just a few kilo's of protein and carbohydrates a healthy human can work nearly all day long. If you get a hundred humans working for one hour and compare the work achieved with what a tractor could manage in the same time, then compare the actual energy used measured in ergs I think you would be surprised. 
Replacing the work done by the farm machinery with human labour would work out cheaper in energy use and give those populations you mention a productive job too.
Coal was real cheap when we use to just go over to the  mountain and find an exposed coal seems and dug it out.
Now we drill into the mountains in attempts to find it then move half the mountain to get access to it before it can be dug out.
Coal like all fossil fuels is only a cheap energy source because the true environmental cost of  burning it to obtain energy is not yet paid.But Esteban had Bradbury dropped so far behind that the others had time to regain their feet and cross the line he may have finished last.
It's Australia which has been left on it's bum while the other surge ahead on strong steady legs.

Dirty brown coal fired electrical generators in Australia which had been shut down are now being recommissioned again, not cleaner burning generators. These cleaner burning generators will struggle to compete with the much cheaper dirty brown coal generators because with the Direct Action Idea which was  deceitfully called a Plan for the last 5 years which is to be legislated has no penalty on emissions. They will struggle to win any share of the electricity market because of the extra cost to build and produce electrical energy with cleaner emissions. Any worn out dirty brown coal generator will be replaced by a new dirty brown coal generator emitting the same amount as the old one. 
 Has our Federal Environment Minister attended one international environmental meeting yet ?But Ben we had a turn near the front then started dropping out of the race. We are dropping so far behind that it will cost us dearly. If penalties are imposed on emissions per capita next year in Paris we face not being able to compete in the race because of penalties.GDay Bev 
Given that Australian coal reserves are estimated to be the fourth largest in the world behind USA, Russia and China, Maybe our coal exports aren't that safe.
Who's to know maybe our electrical energy supplies which use coal to produce the electricity maybe importing coal from China or elsewhere because it's cheaper than mining it and processing it here in 10 years time ? 
Major transport fleets around the world have switched to using CNG as fuel. Australia is set to become the world leader in NG exports but our transport industry imports nearly all fuel used here, go figure eh ?Gday a happy little debunker
No ones is stopping Abbott's team from calling a DD.
Having to give compromise to have bills passed though the senate what's unusual about that ?
Are the self called "Adults in charged" to much like chickens to find out if the majority of voters are prepared to support these budget measures  you complain about being blocked in the senate ?
I don't have to imagine Shorten proposing an Emissions Trading Scheme at the lead up to the next election, an  ETS  has been the preferred ALP's policy since before the 2007 election and still is. 
Can I remind you that it was also the LNP coalition preferred policy until Abbott became their leader by one vote.
It's a fact that that one vote meant that eight months of negotiation and the agreement reached was wasted.
I also remind that there is still 2.5 billion dollars that has not been mentioned in any of Hockey's costing. The senate or the ALP our anyone but the Abbott led LNP can take the blame for that.Err Dangermouse Gillard replaced Rudd as leader on the 24-6-2010 and a general election was held about 2 months later on the 21-8-2010.
Rudd regained the leadership on 26-6-2013 and a general election was held less than 3 months later on the 7-9-2013.
What's your argument ?
Tell me mate did you have a say on whether Abbott should become party leader the day he did  ? Was it your vote that won him the leadership ?
It was the Abbott led team that claimed there would be "no surprises" among many other since broken claims, which is the government that should go to the poles and win a majority in the senate if it believes the majority of the people support the policies it can't negotiate through the senate.And here I was thinking the " you bet you are " shirtfront was to be used in association with the words  "Your guilty, you pulled the trigger, admit it now ! " said to the face of the other with the fisting in fighting position.
It all boiled down too 'our fearless leader' finally asking for and being granted and audience with Mr Putin weeks after the threat of shirtfronting him. 
It seems the confrontation promised by 'our fearless leader' was all dependent on one of the worlds most powerful political leaders allowing any meeting to take place.  
Someone made comment that made him look very foolish and it wasn't Putin.Gee Todd do you disagree with the regulations that penalise industry that dispose of noxious elements into our water systems ?
Would you have no objections if mines and industry were  allowed to pump contaminated water into the water used as your fresh water supply ?
 
Electricity generated by mining and burning coal would be a lot cheaper if no attempt at all was implemented to limit the health and environmental damage mining coal and burning it causes.
Just like the government regulations on what could be dumped into Sydney's sewage systems change the way wastes  were treated and  disposed of by the electroplating factory I worked at the in the 1960's, regulation imposed by taxing carbon emissions would provide a cleaner healthier environment.
That factory spent a heap of money cleaning up it waste, others just shutdown. It's still in operation today and no doubt gained a lot more business for spending that heap of money and benefiting from the other electroplaters that didn't invest in cleaning  up their act.
The actions of that electroplating company's management and other similar actions by other businesses driven by regulations on what can be emitted by them  in the end cleans up our environment, End of story.GdayTC 
Not so long ago a couple of cardboard box manufactures were called out for colluding pricing and fined $200 million.  .
The head of Gunns pleaded guilty to insider trading.
Remember Onetel ?
How about a leading supermarket chain's false claims about bread ?   
The definition of corruption as per the Merriam -Webster is dishonesty or illegal behaviour. 
Claiming for days from one non confirmed allegation that children were thrown overboard by their parents in attempts to harm the children, is the most  disgraceful dishonest acts of any government I've experienced in my life time.
How would you like a government minister to make repeated allegations that you have tried to harm your children, and claiming blurred photographs were proof you had ?  
Stopping ministerial staff from being asked questions on when the ministers were informed that the allegation was false can only be seen as protecting the ministers dishonesty.
I remember a minister in federal government claiming his tax payer funded phone card was stolen. But the fact was this phone card meant for government business was given to the ministers son by the minister without approval by parliament for the son private use. That minister tried to defraud the people of Australia of 50,000 dollars, yet he didn't even get demoted.Gday dmans5
I see there has been a lot of rejoicing by the thought of a trade deal which could see 1 million live cattle being shipped to China every year.
What a pity this trade deal doesn't  come with a guarantee that an increase in beef meat processed in Australia is a requirement ?
I suspect in years to come the beef steaks for sale in Australia supermarkets will have the label of grown in Australia processed in China because billions of dollars will be invested in China's meat processing infrastructure while Australia's meat processing infrastructure will be starved of funds as investment is shifted to more live exports.
Is what Australia's manufacturing needs is more money spent importing in star pickets and fencing wire imported from China ?
I suspect the need for more profit will lead to one man on a computer controlling un-maned drones replacing helicopters and their pilots for round up and driverless trucks delivering cattle to the ports for export.
These trucks will be traveling on roads that have needed every cent gained in tax from the live exports and more to be upgraded and maintained, using driverless imported road graders from China, no doubt ?
What will be used to protected this perceived extra billion dollar a year live export industry if a prolonged widespread drought occurs ? It won't be the income tax of the Helicopter pilots or the truck and road grader drivers ?I expect our federal coalition politicians to agree to not except any pay increases greater than the exact dollar and cent increase given to the average ADF member and to introduce legislation which means they sit for more days in the chambers before excepting any pay increase.Gday John1
The original decision to remove the Whitlam government was made by one man. Sure the liberal coalition won the right to form government not long after that decision but after 7 odd years of very being told "Life wasn't meant to be easy" by that liberal coalition, ALP was voted in with it's largest majority ever. It seems the majority didn't realise what a mistake it was to re-elect a visionless Liberal coalition government until about 1980.

I suspect the same realisation of mistake made in 2013 will be resolved  before the end of 2017.

It wasn't the majority of voters that took the job of a representative of parliament from Mr Whitlam, he retired.
Howard got sacked by the majority of voters. 
History records that Howard was terminated from his job of a representative by a majority of people.
Howard got sacked, Whitlam only got demoted.Gday Zing 
I'd still like to know when the people of Japan will be evicted because they have to much debt ?

Gday John 
Could you provide more information about the coal mines in Africa ? What was the expected time the coal was to be all mined out ?
I would have thought rural areas in Africa would experience the same expensive problems that rural areas in Australia face in regards to access to electrical power ?
Many of the communities here in the NT have reduced their fossil fuel use and expense  to produce electricity by installing solar panels to produce electricity, even though they don't get a rebate from the Territories power authority. They are not connected to the power grid because the cost of the infrastructure required would be astronomical.
It was mentioned not so long ago how workers in Africa were earning $2 dollars an hour, I wonder how long it would take for these workers to earn enough to purchase an electric stove to use with their free Chinese supplied electricity ? 
I hear that Australia is set to become the biggest exporter of natural gas in the world very soon. Odd how our domestic gas price is set to rise, eh ?
Gday Stan 
At my school I learnt that river deltas were formed by silt carried by water flow being deposited because of slower water flow.
Not sure if you realise that many water courses all over the world are dredged regularly because of silting. 
I learnt that provided water flow is not decreased delta's are more likely to grow in size, not sink. 
When humans build walls to control water flow  like dams, land is cover by the water. Is your argument that the land has sunk ? My argument would be that the land is still at the same altitude but the water level has risen. 
Gday clete 
it's on record that the environment minister said " that there will be no penalty for existing emissions". 
Why would anyone who is already emitting CO2  go to the trouble of drawing up plans to reduce the amount of CO2 emitted and submit the plans to an auction ? Drawing up the plans will cost money and there is no guarantee your plans will win something $$$$ at the auction.
The way direct action stands, If you have the highest CO2 emissions in Australia to procure X amount of profit, by doing nothing to reduce those emission you still get the same X amount of profit because there is no penalty unless you increase emissions. 
It was with a price on carbon which gave businesses that reduced emission and advantage over businesses that didn't reduce emissions because the business that reduced emission pay less on emissions than the business that didn't reduce emissions.
The price on carbon (penalty ) was the driver to reduce CO2 emissions.
An ETS also has a price on carbon so it also has a driver.
 
Business doesn't earn any extra money with the direct action plan. They just get some of what they spend reducing emission paid back by the taxpayers, and unless what they spent reducing emissions also reduces the amount of power or some other cost to produce Y   they gain no advantage over the business that also produces Y but has done nothing to reduce emissions.
So Observer is correct Direct Action is a con because without a cost on emissions, reducing emission gives no advantage.
Your electrical power plant which received 1 million dollars of taxpayer money from the direct action plan and re-tooled can now produces 1kw of electricity from 1 kilo of fuel and makes 1 kilo of CO2, has no advantage over mine which gets the same coal/gas/oil at the same price as you and no one spent money re-tooling and produces 1kw for every kilo of fuel but makes 100 kilo's of CO2. 
But clete If there is no cost placed on emissions emitted what is the driver to reduce emissions ? 
I drive past a few schools on my way to work, sections of the roads running beside the schools have speed limits of 40 kmph clearly market with signage. Police often set up speed cameras on these roads, would the police do that if there was no penalty for exceeding 40 kmph ? What is the method of motivation to get drivers to drive at 40 kph or below in these school zones ?
That would be the thought of receiving a financial "penalty" and  the loss of demerit points, isn't it ?Great idea there WS in 70 years time every single person in Australia could retire.
"Darn pothole getting bigger everyday, I swear old Joe I'd fix it if it weren't  for me arthritis" 
reply from old Joe "What pothole ?  Is my name Joe? What were we just talking about ?"  
'I was told by a Rhodes scholar it's introduction would wipe Whyalla of the map.
Gday Forrest 
Many of the coal fired plants being built in China are for relocation of the power supply generators from the larger population centres in efforts to reduce air pollution of the larger population centres.
I have a relative whom owns a house in a town in the Philippines about 2km from a power plant. The town sprung up almost overnight to house the workers whom built the plant. 30 years later most of the houses in that town  still don't have electricity and with the construction work over many are living in poverty.I think in the future when energy suppliers turn off the power when heatwave conditions are predicted as a fire precaution measure, many will consider investing in solar and other renewable energy sources that generate power for their use on their own properties.Gday Virgil
I  think my brother has still got the cuckoo clock which used to be in the lounge room of my parents house ? I know for at least thirty years it worked powered by gravity. It only stopped if after thirty odd hours someone hadn't reset the weight by pulling the chain so the weight could fall again. If the clock stopped you reset the weight adjusted the time and spun a cog with you finger and the motion was started again. By pulling the weight to it's Zenith  meant the clock worked for about 30 continuous hours.
 There is no reason why the same system couldn't be used to power an LED light in every room. What other items could be powered by gravity? A small electric fridge/ freezer of about 40 litres drawing 48 watts, no problem.
Humans don't have to cook all food needed to survive and all precooked food stored in a can  feels good going into your stomach if your hungry enough, even spam. 
Those that believe they can't survive in Australia without burning fossil fuels to produce electricity until the sun rises or shines long enough without thick cloud cover are deluded.Ahh burke that's provided they live in the dark and use no cooking or food storage methods that require energy supplied by energy suppliers.
Legislation would have to be enacted which would allow them to walk naked to purchase their fresh food and pay their rent just in case clothes that aren't big enough to be worn can't be begged, borrowed or "stolen".

Maybe if the wealthy restricted their spending to the most expensive items which required GST to be paid, there would be no talk about raising /broadening the GST ?

$250/day living away from home allowance whilst living in a home owned by your wife with 3 others getting the same allowance, yet bed linen was purchased because it was "on special" kinda debunks the trickle down effect, I believe ?    

 
Hasn't anyone realised that a cashless society would mean 
" total financial control " by banking institutions ?
Gday Ben 
What would stop Australian's whom earn high incomes in Australia but don't have to work in Australia to earn those high incomes from living in say Monaco and paying no GST in Australia ?
Presently if an Australian's earns above the income fresh hold by undertakings carried out in Australia requires income tax to be paid to the Australian treasury regardless of where they live, doesn't it ?
GST and no income tax ? I foresee the CEO earning millions per year in Australia living overseas and conducting almost all business activities required, by things like Skype and email and paying no tax at all to the Australian treasury. 
Increased GST ? 
I'm still to see the notification which states that only the financial disadvantaged are allowed to purchase these cheaper products, which by way of their cheaper price have a lower Good ands Services Tax compared to the higher priced products the wealthier must by law purchase.But Peter, Bens commented that income tax should be abolished and replaced with higher broader GST.
Understand my argument now, do you ?Gday Dugong
I wonder if the Asian financial crisis had anything to do with the selling of 2/3rds of Australia's gold reserves ?
Sovereign wealth held in gold reserves was relatively stable for about ten years before that sale. The sale of Australia's  sovereign wealth held in gold reserves meant wealth was transferred to another form of wealth for Australia but because the price of gold fell by more than 14% mostly because 187 tonnes was sold on the open market by Australia without any warnings meant suddenly other countries sovereign wealth held in gold reserves had depreciated.
Would you class the financial loss (gone and not a roof screw or insulation batt purchased, to show for it ) of over $4 billion in currency exchange gambles as "excellent management" by the Costello controlled treasury ?
 I remember well, the Costello led treasury trying to hide their losses by combining their failure at currency exchange with the success of the ALP's.
The RBA had to step in and fix things and cover the losses.    
Please don't rewrite history.
17 of the 18 leading economies in the OECD experienced recession in the early 1990 's which included Australia's largest and second largest trading partners.
You don't believe it was Howard governments policies that delivered the strongest and longest period of continuous  "worldwide growth" (experienced between 2000-2008)  since the rebuilding after WW2, do you ?

By the way after the dismissal of the Whitlam government in 1975 I believe many gave up the thought of electing an ALP federal government because they believed even if they did the liberals and their coalition partners would do anything to have it dismissed again. 
Adding to the history lesson  which records that after the 1975 federal election, Australians suffered for another 7 odd years of a visionless  liberal coalition government again, with a treasurer named Howard whom promised five surpluses for five years in a row, but didn't deliver one. 
Then the result of the 1983 election saw an ALP government elected with it's biggest majority ever, in both houses.
 It must of hurt like hell for the liberal coalition and their supporters not being able to block supply and bring down an ALP federal government before the end of term ?
Lets not forget the voters of Bennelong "liberated"  John Howard from his job, they said "don't come to work on Monday, your sacked and the majority of the rest of the voters in Australia said " the rest of your party's members in the last government have been sacked or demoted." 
The majority of Australian voters didn't sack Mr Whitlam or his government, the queens rep did  and the decision to vacate his electoral seat was made by him not the voters in his electorate.Gday aGuy 
wasn't having local governments recognised by federal constitution the first step to eliminate State governments ?
It was the ALP who moved to have a referendum to recognise local governments ?
it's Abbott's government that has stopped any progress to have this referendum.Gday John 
Could you please show me the promise that the coal mine recently given the go ahead in Queensland will have individual jobs to operate individual items of mobile plant in 5 years time ?
Is there a guarantee that the trucks and other machinery in the mine will not be controlled by a IT person on a 457 visa ?
Gee mate an iron ore mining company with 14 operations in he Pilbara is going to have over 150 driverless trucks in operation soon, and drilling plants without operators, and driverless trains. 
Millions of tonnes of our minerals will be ship overseas but very few workers will be employed to do it.
I've  seen PM Abbott wearing high vis vest at many industrial and mining sites, spruiking his governments achievements.
When do you recon  he will visit the Holden and Toyota vehicle manufacturing  plants in SA and Victoria or the company that build the towers for wind generators in Victoria ? 
The people working in for these companies had jobs but are now set to lose them. When will Abbott don his high vis and visist these sites and spruik his government failure to protect the jobs of the workers  ?
Any thought of how those working building ships in SA must be feeling about the government that believes it has "opened Australia for business " ?
How would you like to be in the Australian business that employed Australian workers using Australian materials to manufacture ADF foot wear ? I don't think that Australian company will be open for business much longer because of decisions made by the sABBOTTage government.
Promise ? You ask for a promise ?
We now have a PM whom on national television when health minister was asked about commitment to the existing  medicare safety net, said ,quote 
"an absolutely rock solid, ironclad commitment."
About six months later the rock turned to mud and the iron rusted away on that commitment and the safety net was raised. 
Australia gave the world a commitment to reduce CO2 emissions by 5% of the year 2000 levels by the year 2020, and was well on the way of achieving that commitment with the price on carbon.
Abbott says he stands by that commitment made to the world, but the world knows what he says "means nothing", because he also said that operations sovereign borders would be undertaken without breeching other countries sovereignty, I use as just one example. 
Going to "shirtfront" the leader of another country and a superpower country at that ? The definition of shirtfront is committing violence. It's  beyond me how Australian came to have a PM that threatens violence to others without any proof that the other party has done anything wrong ?Ahh John as countries around the world either have or are moving towards taxing GHG emissions, our country has repealed a tax on GHG's. By the way my households $550/year saving has turned out to be less than $140/year and the price of a  leg of lamb has increased since the repeal of the price on carbon.
There would be a short term economic gain if local governments stopped rubbish collection and closed waste disposal sites too. I wonder why laws have been legislated in attempts to stop people and business from dumping unwanted waste anywhere they want too ? 
As Winston has wisely  pointed out in this comment section, government subsidies to energy providers that produce their  energy with fewer emission is what the government says the Direct Action Plan is supposed to do.
Is there a better definition of hypocrisy than winding back 
government assistance too lower emission power generation production which is underway and planned, but saying taxpayer funds will be provided by the "direct action plan" to fund lower emission power production ?  
It was once a belief that humans would never fly, but now with ingenuity they do in solar powered aircraft which could if  wanted have a pig soaring above the ground too. 
And please no false assertions about only if the sun is shinning because weather conditions often ground fossil fuel power aircraft too. Is the F 35 strike fighter now allow to take off if there is storm clouds less than 60 miles away  ?Mmm Forrest, I live in Darwin, often it's a relief to enter the supermarket complex and feel the temperature drop from what is outside the complex being about 34 degrees Celsius and very high humidity  to about 25 degrees Celsius with much lower humidity, what do you think causes this change in temperature and humidity ? I wonder why humans developed air conditioners ?
Many large cities around the world cause localised weather conditions.
In cooler climates humans have  used fire to change the weather conditions  so they can become warmer. I'm  surprised you are ignorant about this use of fire to change the weather conditions it's been used for quite some time by humans.There are wind generators which have been suppling power  to Esperance WA since 1993, the same wind generators are still in operation today.
What coal fire electrical generation plants don't require maintenance ?
How many residents of Morwell Victoria took the governments advice and left town for 3 weeks in April this year ?GDay frank
I often wonder what would have occurred if we had that gas pipeline from the NW shelve to the eastern states which the Whitlam government wanted to build back in the 1970's ?
The gas would have been able to be used to fuel our transport and many other industries and would have negated the need to spend billions of dollars on imported fuels.
Surely that would have been a good thing for our economy ?Gday Graham
I recall hearing that the self called "grown ups" were now in control of government. 
One of the best displays of hypocrisy I've leant of today would be banning photographers for taking photo's of those assisting with the inquiry into the reason head covering were banned in parliament.Gday Dinkum
Nuclear ? The French whom have a good knowledge on nuclear (and can design and build their own submarines and jet fighters ) are building a new nuclear electrical generation plant at Flamaville, it's construction is 4 years behind schedule  and 2.5 times over budget.
In 2010 it was estimated that 35 billion Euros would be  the cost of storing France's existing nuclear waste.
The average cost of returning (must be replaced at some time )nuclear plants to greenfields is expected to be a billion euros per plant. 
There is a fusion nuclear reactor about 40 million miles away which has supplied most of the energy needs for life on planet earth for billions of years and is expect to produce energy for another 4 billion years.
Surely using the energy produced by the sun and gravity (true gifts from nature ) with any top ups supplied by  boi-fuels 
( which are produced by taking carbon out of the atmosphere ) grown with saline acidic water, is the best answer for energy needs for the next 4 billion years ?  
I say nuclear is on the nose because of the dangers, the high costs, the radioactive waste  and the fact it relies on a non renewable resource.  
The best way to lift people from shameful levels of poverty would be to help them develop renewable energy sources  because without these sources and spending big on developing "non renewables" will mean the fuel tank becomes empty quicker.
Imagine those WA grain farmers seeing their storm damage crops as money to be made by selling them for bio-fuel ?
It's only because the "true cost" of the pollution and damage  generating power from other sources isn't being paid is the reason those farmers don't.Gday bren 
so that means anyone with specialised training could have instructed others how to fire the missile but without any evidence the blame has been put on the Russian president.

Those in control of Australia's Operation Sovereign Borders gave assurances that Indonesia's sovereignty would be respected, yet the "fact" is Indonesia's borders were breeched by armed Australian government vessels.
What penalty has been applied to those whom gave (the proven by fact as broken) assurances ? 
Who gave the orders to sail Australian government vessels towards Indonesia without informing Indonesian government  where the vessels were headed ?
Mmm I do believe that electrical energy suppliers will be turning off supply in heat wave conditions to stop their electrical energy from starting bushfires.
Those who live in the Top End know that being connected to the grid doesn't guarantee electrical power and most of the outages are not caused by bad weather.
What do Top Enders do when the power goes off ? "Sweat" until it comes back on or start their generators. It's unfortunate that  we can't purchase biofuel for our generators from the fuel station down the road. That has something to do with not paying the full environmental cost of burning fossil fuels at the present time ? 
By doing a bit of research it would be found that a lot of the pig iron produced these days is made from mixing iron ore and scrap ferrous metals heated with electricity, no coking coal is required.Yes I agree Paul01
Where is the proof they pay 48 cent in the dollar in income tax ?
The money spent on fuel and other cost for my vehicle so I can get to work comes out of my pocket, do the CEO's pay from their pocket to travel to work ? 
Some people have to pay for parking their vehicle while they are at work, do the CEO's ?
Were there any CEO's watching the footy finials in corporate boxes at the venue, how much money came out of their pockets to enter the venue ?
Did the CEO's in the corporate boxes watching the footy finals have to take money out of their pockets to pay for the food and drink they consumed whilst watching the footy finals ?
Wow eh paying 48 cents per dollar tax but with many things paid for by the company but used by the executives free of charge which is not available to most tax payers and this is  given to those executives before the company pays it's 30% tax on profit.
I haven't had the lunch I consume in my lunch break paid for by the company I work for a long long time, I bet there aren't many earning over $500,000/year, whom could honestly say the same ?Gday TGU
You forgot to mention how every country with a vehicle manufacturing industry have governments that provide some form of support to the vehicle manufactures in their country.
I wonder why they do that ?Gday John1 
When will control of Japan be taken by the liquidators and will it's population be evicted ?
Why didn't our Prime Minister say to those fighting the enemy in the middle east (what's the enemy name this time ? ) 
"You have our full moral support but due to a budget emergency we can't afford to finance a war, we have to get our house in order first " ?Mmmm John1 I see there has been a backdown on the requirement for the unemployed to apply for 40 jobs per month and this has come because of concerns raised by business   groups. It's a pity they weren't asked about their views before this policy was formulated. Luckily it was passed by the senate  which meant that the extra burden it would have placed on business was avoided.
The $7 health service co-payment was made into  policy without any consultation from health service providers and now we find out that it is expected to cost State/ Territory governments a lot more in hospital services, luckily it wasn't rubber stamped by the senate.
The senate rubberstamping this mobs ridiculous thought bubbles, I hope that never happens. 
I believe the only thing stopping the senate from passing policies into legislation is poor unconsulted damaging policies put forward by the government many should be thrown out and plan B with consulted policies (increasing revenue, the true problem the government has ) which find agreement be introduced in their place.
I remember both the ALP and the LNP coalition went to the 2007 election with ETS policies and after "8 months of negotiation" by the government and the LNP coalition opposition agreement was made on a policy, can you remember what happened on the day that policy was to be introduced to parliament ? 
It seems even 8 month long negotiated agreements mean nothing to the Abbott led LNP coalition even when it a policy they campaigned with.Gday AE 
The mining interests spend $22 million in six weeks on the campaign to stop the original mining tax. I can't think of any other campaign to stop a government policy which spent as much as quickly, can you ?
I see that Rio has sold the mine in Africa that they spent $2.5 billion on, for $600 million. Just goes to show the big miners make big mistakes too.GDay AGB 
you didn't read that's the legislation would remove powers of independence of assessments  of Australia's non-refoulement obligations ?
Gee mate the same government that was complaining in the UN about Cambodia's human rights violations just a few months ago now wants to send people whom had fled from human right violations to the country they complained about.But AGB there is obligation of non refoulement, surely an independent body must be judge of whether this is occurring or may occur? It should not the be the decision of the immigration department or the minister for immigration or his directive to the immigration department.
You never can tell maybe the minister of immigration in some governments may have prejudice views ?Our way or no way and if existing laws don't allow our way we'll change them. Can others see the dangers of governments with views like this ?
There was a government in Europe in the 1930's that changed their countries laws protecting some peoples human rights and eventually  that countries horrific actions lead to the UN Conventions of Human Rights being ratified. 
If Australians aren't happy about International obligations in regard to human rights lets work to get International agreement to have those obligations changed before changing our laws so that international obligations can be avoided.  
I believe every Australian citizen can thank their lucky stars that this present government didn't win a majority in both Federal Houses of Parliament at the last election.
It's frightening to imagine what legislation would be passed through those houses had they had.Gees Charles how long as trade been undertaken in countries in the middle east ?
You don't think that families have saved some wealth over those thousands of years ?
Surely some seeking asylum are attempting to escape others persecuting them and trying to steal their wealth ?
Even today land and other possessions are  being sold and the money is going to others waiting in Indonesia to find a place of asylum so those in Indonesia can buy food and shelter. 
Where has this $10,000 figure you quote come from ?
I remember learning of figures of less than $2000 being the going rate and all the money collected went to purchasing the boat and supplies for the journey.
Facts and truth ? Our government would give any facts  or admit the truth about people they had imprisoned onboard a customs vessel at sea for over a month.
SOP on preventing people from drowning at sea, number reads do everything possible to limit the amount of time they are at sea.Ahh rob1966
If I remember correctly long after the 2003 coalition of the willing invasion of Iraq we learnt that our SAS had been deployed in Iraq before the invasion was announced as  having commenced. 
I do believe we have had our air force drop arms and ammunitions to fighters in the North of Iraq last week ?
I seem to have a different view to all, I believe no arms should be distributed to anyone and efforts should be made to stop all arms and ammunitions from reaching the conflict areas. Sooner or later all the ammunitions would be used up. 
I believe the last thing the ever suffering people of the ME need is more weapons in the ME.
It's 2014 and IS are the enemy, If we keep arming people what will be the name the enemy in 2024 fights under?  
GDay gd
Well gd  renewable energy sources can power all the things you mention in your comment therefore there is no need to believe they must be "given up"
Ignorance is not an excuse to not realise that power for air travel can be obtained by burning bio-fuels. There is no need to imagine the CO2 emitted from the plane being used to generate the fuel for future flights because this is already possible.
A solar powered air craft has already flown from coast to coast in the USA. 
I blame the Abbott led LNP federal government for the fact we have no CO2 emission reduction policy in Australia today, who do you blame ?But Greig NRE used to produce energy is only cheaper if you don't pay the full cost of the damage to the environment for the production of that energy. 
One day the full cost of mining of the minerals to produce that energy will need to be paid.
Please think of how much the price of the cutting blades and teeth used by the machinery in the coal mine would increase ( they are replaced because of wear ) if the pollution generated by manufacturing them was paid. The full cost of the pollution generated transporting these cutting blades to the mine isn't paid. If the pollution caused by the need of these and many more things needed to generate electricity by burning coal was paid the cost of generating that energy would increase.But Greig you're not factoring in the cost of pollution caused by burning fossil fuels to create energy. It's only cheaper because the full cost of using it isn't being paid.
The mine in Morwell Victoria was used to extract coal and this was turned into energy but the true cost of that energy  hasn't be calculated or paid yet.
The price of coal used to produce electrical energy has fallen by over 30% per tonne over the last few years, even when adding in the at most 10% increase by pricing carbon we should have received a 20% reduction in power prices for electricity generated by coal ?
Using stored fuel from the sun that took hundreds of thousand of years to be formed (fossil fuels ) faster than they can be replaced with little regard to the damage using them causes is unsustainable too.
But Greig the human race would only be in Africa had someone not shown it was possible to traverse a river in another way than trying to walk under water. 
Every  person acting to reduce the damage to our environment means there is less damage to our environment overall. Saying "but their not doing anything, so I wont" doesn't achieve anything.
The fastest way to a global Agreement is by having lots and lots of people wanting it and supporting it and  believing it possible. It is possible I cite removing lead from fuel and almost the complete elimination of HFC's as proof. 
You don't see it happening soon and see no benefit, which kinda debunks you argument, that you all for it.
