I quite agree with you WM... The Labor movement are indeed progressive by definition. Whereas the Conservatives just say No...  don't change a thing! Except Mr Howard... I never thought during his years in Office that I would say this... showed considerable progressiveness in comparison to this rabble of spoiled brats (see my post below).

But thats the nature of conservativism. And this lot are more extreme as neoliberals who want the level playing fields made into escarpments with the rich at the top!
Mal... they can learn to negotiate (see my post below)... This is a mature option though and I don't believe that Mr Abbott is capable of learning new skills. 

He is a bully and staunch neoliberal who has an image in his mind of achieving nothing more than a trickle down economy. I'm sure he thinks of the trickle as a flood to enrich the entire economy... but it just doesn't work that way.Mitor, I agree with your insight... but Mr Abbott has the mouth but not the courage nor the mature wisdom to learn (see my post below).

It is about Mr Abbott's ego. He thinks he must always have his own way. Anything less is unacceptable and he cannot compromise.

You make an interesting correlation with "his Stalinist idea about history and destiny"... perhaps its his religious bent that gives him such an idea of his anointed right to lead?

Sounds a bit delusional doesn't it...
APM... wot bollocks!

Firstly there are swinging voters who voted Liberal because they were swayed by Mr Abbott's rhetoric labelling the Labor Govt as dysfunctional. 

Secondly there are many Liberal voters who are true liberal with an ideological faith in the ability of all to achieve... Mr Abbott has laughed in their faces as he is attempting to remove every support to enable those less able to achieve. They see the poor being forced by increasing difficulties to scramble out of the mire. Of course they will flock to support those who have a social conscience.

Then thirdly, there are those who believe in the Liberal way but who are disgusted by Mr Abbott's immaturity (se my post below). These are less likely to vote elsewhere but will do so if Mr Abbott continues on his present course simply because they recognise that he is destructive to the economy with his absurd faith in trickle down economics.

If you can't believe that there are "so many conservative voters who end up being tricked..." then I am sorry for you that your eyes and ears are so occluded that you are blind and deaf.
"It's not fair, of course - the Napthine Government is governing well enough. "

So what is fair Chris? Is anything fair in our new Aus when the political card game (as played by the LNP) is stacked squarely against those who have no lobbying power - in favour of mining mining mining?

There is no fairness in the world as everyone who matures discovers. There is simply the ongoing battle of survival.

And this is where Mr Abbott and Co is at their weakest. Throughout the Gillard years Mr Abbott squalled like a spoiled brat that :Its not fair... I should be the Prime Minister... I want a new election NOW!:

His tantrums were famous and our fears grew as we watched this ambitious little brat scream at every opportunity and demand to get his own way.

Well now the boot is on his own little tootie and he continues to scream, albeit in carefully coached, modulated tones.

As everyone develops in life we learn negotiation skills which help us work constructively with others. Mr Abbott hasn't learned this important lesson. And the present situation is the consequence.

Mr Abbott must realise that his policies are repugnant to most Australians. That his unfairness to the poor and hard-working Aussies who are trying desperately to gain a scramble hold on life are obnoxious and dangerous to our whole society and economics.

Mr Abbott must learn to modify his extreme agenda to be more socially responsible. Then he will be able to negotiate and get his policies through Parliament.

But he will have to mature and learn a lot to do this. Is he capable? I doubt it.
Thank you Prof for this information. It is heartening to read a sensible balanced and informed opinion when so much else is tainted with polarising emotive opinion.

Its a terrible misfortune that such weapons were given/lent to people who could shoot guns and missiles without consideration as to their discipline which would enable them to exercise restraint.

Congratulations to Ms Bishop for her achievement. This is an important step toward sanity in this horrible situation. I just hope that UN and Security Council can follow up with a reasoned and careful management strategy that will result in a safe investigation and a negotiated peace in Ukraine.
BnF... I quite agree.

There is sufficient evidence that the LNP policy is aimed at destroying innocent lives "for the greater good" of stopping the boats. This is entirely inappropriate and, as Mike makes clear above, is unnecessary.

Asylum seekers are not people smugglers. Hurting these people does nothing to "dismantle the business model" of people smugglers.

As Malcolm Fraser did, we need to accept more asylum seekers from Indonesia and to transport them in a safe manner from Indonesia. This is a more effective and efficient method for stopping the boats.
John... but there is no need to torture and destroy the mental health of asylum seekers who are already here... or didn't yu bother reading the opinion piece above?!
I agree greg and dancer... with all the negativity and hatred inspired by the government policy it is relieving to come across others who support reason and intelligent approaches to the question.

There are many more options than two or even three. We are limiting out national growth potential by excluding people who really want to be here for more than just an extended backpacker trip.

The new thinking that comes with the gratitude and relief of finding a safe home has the potential to help make Australia a place for other nations to admire. Instead our policy makes us a disgrace. Future generations will damn us for our abhorrent treatment of refugees just as we will be damned for abandoning our responsibility to address climate change in a meaningful and productive manner.
JC a majority does make it right or good. that is merely a measure of how effective the government's rhetoric (propaganda) has been.

Think for yourself and examine the ethics of government policy. Consider also the humanitarian obligations we have and the reasons for those obligations.

If the majority were criminal would it continue to be right?

What happens when the majority are "lefties"... your argument would be unsatisfactory to you in this context.
And there is good reason why this is so... you just don't get it do you...I agree Reinhard... the Malaysia plan would have made a huge difference and would have been a true humane response.

But Mr Abbott could not allow something to work in this arena. It would have stolen his most valuable weapon against the Labor govt.

Just imagine the 2013 election without the hype and bare-chested thumping propaganda if Ms Gillard's plan had been effective? Mr Abbott probably would have lost the election!
Frank you are right that the majority view is "rusted on" to the idea perpetrated by John Howard and continued by Mr Rudd, less so Ms Gillard, and now accentuated by Mssrs Abbott and Morrison.

This cynical view is honestly to be deplored. It is the effect of a superbly effective election strategy by John Howard and has been maintained in an Orwellian effort to maintain an imaginary war in order to placate and bring on side swinging voters who have a latent paranoia of invasion.

No-one thinks that border security is unimportant. This is not about border security. Thats just another catch cry used to justify this dangerous and cruel action. A label to explain their secrecy. Nothing more.
Mike has written a truly honest piece with journalistic integrity. The truth emblazoned across this page is that we are harming these innocent children and adults for no purpose other than .... (I suggest sadism is the core reason, but this is speculation based upon the evidence).

Mr Morrison's policy of secrecy also is inappropriate. It serves no useful purpose. I suggest that the practice of secrecy is contrary to their stated objective of deterrence. If the asylum seekers in Indonesia are aware of the mistreatment, the inhumane mental torture and physical neglect then the deterrence effect, if any exists, should be profound.

Mr Morrison is not about deterrence. I deny the deterrence effect from the outset. People who are sufficiently desperate to board a leaky boats and risk drowning do not do so unless there is a worse fate driving them to take such desperate measures. 

Lets get over the opinion that all asylum seekers are "all" economic. If a person wants a better financial status they would not be willing to risk their lives. If they are coming here for the money, there are far easier options. Economic refugees (and people smugglers too) come here by plane. Their contacts are able to supply passports, visas and plane boarding passes - for enough money.

In sum, the present policy is extreme, misguided and a foolish, ill-considered abuse of humanity and human rights. It may stop a few boats (we don't really know for we have only propaganda to support the assertion) but is destroying lives in the process.
damon, there has been reported in the media, both ABC and MSM, that people smugglers and some refugees are indeed buying these items around 6 months ago.

This is my point: if they have sufficient money they can indeed buy whatever they need. Those who come for a better financial existence will more likely have sufficient to take this option, whereas those who flee persecution do so in desperation and don't have time to arrange these.

Your comment is truly cynical.
Crikey Zing... who else would you have deported? Likely its anyone who disagrees with you... Where should they be deported? To their country of origin or somewhere other than here (anywhere)?

Sorry mate but you make a fool of yourself with such an inconsiderate response.
Thats a very harsh and black view Iain. Very harsh and cruel judgement with which I cannot agree.

There are many alternatives to the present policy response to asylum seekers. You are merely showing how blinkered your view is: restricted to the negative... very sad for you.

Perhaps you should take a trip to Christmas Is yourself to see how these people live/survive... and maybe a trip to Pakistan, Iraq, Afghanistan etc. to see why they risk their lives to make their dangerous journey.

While I respect your right to express your view, I also have the equal right and urge you to think beyond the propaganda and harmful attitudes toward asylum seekers.
And what about government transparency Esteban? I think if you look at the advocacy orgs, you will find that they are generally very accountable and transparent in their policy formulations and activities.

Honestly though, I find your response here disgusting!
This report by Ms Triggs presents evidence. Such evidence is not a debatable subject but fact.

What becomes debatable is how best to respond to this situation, to the people affected in such a traumatised way.

The important question is who is most appropriate to develop response strategies? Everyone wants to respond to reflect their own beliefs and so do not focus on the situation of the people but on their own beliefs.

Clearly mental health and other medical professionals are best informed to help these people appropriately. These people are evidently suffering deeply from the experience of their escape from their country of origin, the desperate journey and their incarceration with no hope or indication of release.

Surely this is contrary to human rights and childrens' rights. The government, with their intention of "Stopping the Boats!" is causing severe cruelty. In the light of this report they must re-evaluate the human impact of their policy and respond with a more appropriate management policy which will cause no harm to the inmates.

There are many ways to "Stop the Boats". A humane response would accept asylum seekers who have had their claims validated by UNHCR assessment first from Indonesia. Flying asylum seekers here from Indonesia would destroy boat smugglers business model far more effectively and efficiently than this appalling cruelty.

Equally importantly is the rapid albeit thorough assessment process that must be done in order to reduce the unnecessary delays, and the placement of these people into safe and sustainable community accommodation.
What absurdly specious arguments you make Coogera.

A four question ticklist is not sufficient assessment. Refugee advocates are calling for a thorough and timely assessment process. Do you think that 12 months on Nauru is processing? Your argument has no merit.

51 million refugees globally does not equate with the 20 to 30 thousand on Indonesia. The Labor govt intake quota was 20,000. The Abbott govt reduced this to 14,000 per year. If we increased the quota and took UNHCR assessed refugees from Indonesia and flew them here we would fulfil our duty of care and destroy the people smugglers business plan more effectively and efficiently than any other alternative. It would cost far less too.
Excellent point Nathan. I agree that too few Australian voters think beyond what they have always done in the past by voting much more independently. Nick Xenophon and Andrew Wilkie are great exemplars of free thinking democratic principles.

Some may say we expect too much from our politicians. I say our politicians constantly disappoint us with their polarised views and expectation that they have to fight a battle in order to build a better Aus.

Democracy means people with differing opinions working together to make the best decisions to care for all Australians. It should not be a fight between left and right, religious and atheist, scientists and industrialist, environmentalist vs destroyers of the environment.

We are a nation of people. If people argue without respect for others opinions they will never achieve anything sustainable. If we all work together with honesty, respect and compromise we can come to sensible solutions to our problems that will benefit all and harm no-one.

Politics should not be adversarial and it is Mr Abbott's leadership representing the views of all Australians that has gained him appreciation and recognition. This is shown in the opinion polls. He should learn from this.

I read your cynicism here prison. And you are right in your anger at the machine-speak of the political mouth. Too much arrogance and telling us all blindly what is best for us - right?

Yet Mr Abbott has on this occasion expressed himself with humanity, with a genuineness that few of us expected and we respect. We really should recognise this and encourage it - even if we see only arrogance and a lack of humanity in everything else he does or they do. If he sees that we appreciate honesty and integrity, he may change to suit our needs.
I quite agree with you Ken... but there is difference in scale that has brought out a human response and we should encourage that. If Mr Abbott can show real compassion here, it means he is capable of the same in individual circumstances. 

The poll figures are showing the Aus populace likes this. Being a vulnerable PM he may just learn from this response and become more humane in other policy matters.

If we are to persuade a change we cannot afford to be too cynical.Is this the Liberal party view Johno? a total disrespect for any opinion you do not accept? I've always read a dispassionate balance in Jonathan Greens' writing. He has recognised this is not about "left" and "right" but about a human response to a terrible tragedy.I agree that this has been Mr Abbott's finest hour so far. Yet Mr Putin's response too was entirely appropriate.

Mr Abbott has shown his limited understanding of people and circumstance and has jumped instinctively to an accusatory mindset seeking out a criminal to blame. 

Typically his response when fearing he (Australia) will be allocated a minor role in the investigation has suggested the only role to which he can relate. Of course he wants Aus to take charge of security. 

As a non "Tech-head" he thinks the best we can offer is our armed forces. I'm certain he sees himself leading a tank division and beating off the rebels or finding the "criminal" who fired the missile.

Yet he has been compassionate in this situation. He has shown his humanity for once and we have naturally respected and admired him for this. 

I do hope he learns to allow his compassion to extend to asylum seekers and the people whom he wants off government services and supports - but I doubt it. He will shortly return to the nasty piece of work that we know and revile.
Peter this is not a context for accusing "lefties"... you just make a fool of yourself.

There are valid arguments on both side my friend. It is appropriate to condemn Israel as there is clear evidence of their wilfulness to kill innocent civilians in their efforts to stop missiles. If they were serious about stopping missiles, they would negotiate a peace. Instead they seem intent on killing with their own agenda of maintaining an illegal occupation and control of Palestine.

I haven't read anything defending Putin, but I'm certain there are some who will. This doesn't make them "Lefties", it just makes them supporters of Putin.

Such violent speech against others is unwise Peter. You too may be subject to such abuse for your language. Very disappointing effort: FF!
Delightful read and in historical perspective Annabel... thank you.

I believe that Mr Abbott has had some really good moments in this anxious incident. Certainly Ms Bishop has acquitted her role with excellent and I congratulate her for her efforts and success.

However, it does highlight Mr Abbott limited capacity to conduct himself with diplomatic reasoning. To accuse Mr Putin with, as Putin said, without reference to evidence and leaping face first to the conclusion of Russia's involvement is inappropriate. If other nations hadn't leapt willingly onto the wagon Mr Abbott would've looked a very isolated little fish in a pool of sharks and may have been gobbled up and shat out again. He was very lucky to have survived this blustering gaffe.
Banning a drug has no real impact. It merely makes the drug illegal which causes users to become criminals. Has Banning heroin reduced its use? Has cannabis become less popular because it is illegal? At the time these drugs were criminalised very few used them. Now more than half the population has used cannabis at some time in their lives.

The Turks in the 18th century threatened death to smokers. Only a few were executed but smoking continued to become the number one drug of use in Turkey. Certainly there were other factors at play here, but the basic premise is that deterrence from legal sanctions is ineffective. 
Curious, there is data from Switzerland, which decriminalised all drug use in the late 90s, Spain which legalised all drugs and various other nations. All the results I have read show no increase in drug use.

France de-regulated buprenorphine, which is used here as a detox agent and heroin replacement, and made it available via GPs. They found that heroin use declined dramatically as bupe was taken up, and criminal conduct associated with heroin acquisition, eg. break and enter, theft etc, reduced significantly.

The Netherlands decriminalised cannabis in the 90s and reported a decade later that cannabis use among residents local to cannabis cafes had reduced but tourism was up.

The results are fairly conclusive that legalisation/decriminalising drug use does not necessarily lead to increased use. If we legalised and regulated supply via licensed premises many of the adverse health impacts would be controlled, such as hepatitis through the use of dirty needles etc.

This is my soap box issue and I could go on for pages... but the upshot is that criminalisation has been the major contributor to crime and health issues related to drug use.
"Who does?" The Public Health professionals do. It is balance that is required and working with the corporations to find that balance. 

Mr Chapman has been a zealot anti-smoking campaigner from the 80s. His campaign has earned him much recognition and reward. Yet his "cant and hypocrisy" in neglecting the impact of alcohol on society has been his demonstrable fault. If we are to listen to "people with experience" consistently, we should be treating alcohol the same as we are treating tobacco. 

I implore you Ben to use this same logic when you write on Climate change. You ignore experts and repeat the same arguments as "Lord Monkton" and the proven ignorance of Mr Abbott. Appease your readers and modify your rhetoric Ben and access reliable experts for your arguments.
On the contrary Mr Chapman. Diabetes specialists do indeed focus on renal issues. Its a huge part of their practice as it is so effected by the disorder. 
 
"Or perhaps you believe that if all problems can't be fixed then none of them should be?"... gee what an assumption. No I want you, as a major leading professional in this important field to approach the more pressing issue of alcohol. You have led the charge against tobacco so zealously but appear to have ignored alcohol.

Surely you must be aware of the literature sir?
hear hear Terry... I too am a smoker. I gave up for 8 years but could not maintain abstinence due to the persistent craving and the horrible things that lack of nicotine did to my body and mind. No details here but my hat goes off to salute you for 22 years.

I agree with you that we need to work toward kids not taking up smoking. But our present policies seem to me to make smoking attractive. Kids ask for "The Eye" or "Leg" when buying smokes (I've heard them at the counter and asked kids about this). They find it comical!

Pricing doesn't stop them either. Price has never been a deterrent for those who are addicted or for children wanting to experiment as their friends do. Plain packaging is no deterrent either. It is merely goading the tobacco companies and making life harder for shop assistants.

My kids never took up smoking because I told them how horrible was the addiction and what harms tobacco does. Education is the thing, as BAT claimed.
Mr Chapman you have been an ideological crusader against smoking from the 80s with your famous BUGA UP campaign. I agree that it is important to prevent children from taking up smoking. The less people that start the better.

However, "the sheer cant and hypocrisy in all of this" is evident in your response here. If you are serious about public health you will ensure that alcohol, which is also a very dangerous drug with far more social harms than tobacco ever posed, is treated in the same manner. I have never read you making any adverse claims about alcohol. This is real hypocrisy! 

You allow the alcohol industry to seduce young children. You allow an insidious industry to thrive on the destruction of families. You allow the alcohol industry to make huge profits which contribute very heavily to violence in our cities. When are you going to serve the Public Health by taking your crusade to this neglected poison which is thriving in our communities.
Please see my other response to you above. But I reiterate that the harms done by alcohol are highly significant. I have yet to see any significant work done on the alcohol problem similar to your major efforts on tobacco.

Surely alcohol comes within the field of Public Health. As a leading professional in the field I would imagine that your work engages in illness prevention. As you should be aware (I have yet to see a paper by you attacking alcohol with the same zealotry that you use on tobacco), alcohol is a major contributor to illness, cancers, liver disorders, social harms, marital breakdown and violence, impoverishment and child neglect, and violence in our society.

I would also urge you to write on gambling with the same assiduousness. These are the three major ills affecting public health are they not? I write not to criticise your actions on tobacco but to urge you to greater efforts for the good of our society. Please attack these issue stridently as you have tobacco. You and I are on the same page Mr Chapman. We both want our society to be healthier. I may disagree with you on the subject of tobacco because I am myself addicted to tobacco - like you, I am human with failings. Yet I see present efforts to control alcohol and gambling could be vastly improved and no-one seems to be doing anything.

Neither am I against alcohol as such. I enjoy a very occasional glass of wine, although I never gamble. But you are in the best position to achieve results here and I see nothing being done.

Thank you for your replies. I hope you may take my comments, though strident, as constructive.
You must be aware Mr Chapman of the market forces. If you push prices up the business will promote cheaper items to maintain their sales.

Moreover tobacco is an addictive drug. You don't kill the addiction by making the drug dearer. Instead people will opt for cheaper smokes if smokes are getting dearer. If the addiction becomes more expensive than they can pay, addicts will opt for alternatives to fund that addiction, such as theft crimes. Dearer prices risk causing crime.

A holistic balance is required here. Your approach is monocular, simplistic and unbalanced. In the 90s my kids came home from school horrified at the effects of smoking. They have never touched tobacco because of this. So what the BAT is saying is quite right. Why reject this - is it simply because the BAT has said it? Does your hatred colour your reasoning?
Well said Jerry... I totally agree.Well said Lachie...
Your friend should have no concerns about antisemitic feelings here in Aus. We, generally, are tarred with the same brush.

Like the Israeli government, our government is committing abhorrent atrocities. Although there is a difference is the degree of violence, we are committing human rights abuses against innocent people suffering a profound trauma. The difference is the physical nature of the abuse.

It is NOT the Jewish people who are doing this - it is their government. Just as I do not treat asylum seekers with torture. I am certain there are many Israelis who complain bitterly to their government just as I do. Equally I am certain there are many Jews who condemn such appalling violence.

namaste Glen... I recognise and acknowledge with respect that within you is the same as within me. We may differ in many ways, yet we are human and fallible and we have within us all the spirit of humanity which revolts against terror and abuse.

I trust that the humanity within you will protest loudly and consistently to the Israeli government telling them they do not act with humanity - that the violence perpetrated is contrary to intelligent and compassionate reasoning: that they are behaving disgracefully.

But here is Aus your friend has a greater danger than I. I am sorry my fellow Aussies behave with such ignorance. This is a consequence of the intolerance that has emerged, and always emerges, when a government promotes racial hatred through such abusive actions.

I have written to the Israeli embassy. I have not received a reply.
"The left side of politics seems to adopt a kind of 'kum-bye-ya' mentality - ..." Oh crikey - here we go again with absurd "lefties are loonies" BS.

Can't you think of a reasonable argument without bashing people who might disagree with you without even hearing/reading what they have to say? How shallow!

But your point Michael, buried under the manure, is very superficial. Consider this proposal under a "Leftie" government if you will. Perhaps they want to gather data on taxation fraud (no I'm not suggesting this applies to you personally). A hostile government may decide that they want to target people salting away a few $s in an off-shore account. They decide to trawl email metadata for contacts with the Seychelles Is. Your name comes up and they target you!

This kind of data has all manner of potential uses and our present government will not be in charge in a decade. Be wary of agreeing so readily without consideration of the deeper implications Michael. Right now it seems innocent enough - later may be a different story.
Metadata is being gathered by many private and public companies. The ABC, I am sure, gathers some data on posts etc but more commonly the cookies that end up on your machine are metadata collectors. They track your internet activity and send this back to the originating business/website to enable "Us to provide you with a more personalised service".

Our phone companies track us, CCTV scans us. Crikey some companies even access our computer camera and microphone to collect information on us... even tracking our eye movements in relation to advertising!!!

But it is a serious issue and not to be minimised. "This type of thinking is noxious to good-faith community life. " very true words! The collection of metadata will no doubt, as mentioned above, stimulate a degree of paranoia. You don't have to be a criminal to be afraid of data collection. And this will erode our confidence in government even more than ever.

This erosion of good faith damages our trust in each other as well. The uses of metadata as a "spy" practice rightly make everyone concerned. Present safeguards may be overturned at some point in the future, or converted, as described above, to trawl information from content as well.

I personally am unconcerned about my activities. But I sign petitions and network with environmental activists. I believe I am doing right but that doesn't mean the State will always agree. Mr Abbott has already mooted banning the signing of "third party petitions"! such as "save the whale"...

It is truly Orwellian and its open to much that we do not want in our society. Suggestions from some of this being a "police state" may seem hyperbolic at this time... but time brings change and this proposal could be converted to terrible effect on our open and trusting society.
Jolly well said ... 

The divisiveness of our adversarial political community is destructive and promotes the "Us and Them" mentality which is the root of the problem.

I'd love to cite Lennon rather than Lenin ...
It would be terribly difficult to separate the various potential causes of such racism. One cannot say that it is the government's fault, or even that it is because Israel has been doing an appalling job by attacking innocent and sleeping people in a UN refugee centre or school.

But human nature contains a basic instinct to revile those who are not "Us". Throughout history there are examples of hatred for "those queer folk on the other side of the hill" or inter-religious or inter-racial revulsion. 

But a primitive instinct belongs firmly in primitive minds. Its our lot in modern times to develop higher understanding that all people are the same and equal. Instinctive reactions are unacceptable in a multicultural and mature society.

Yet we had similar racial hatred during the tenure of the last Liberal government. The Maroubra riots were fed by government policy and shock-jocks like Alan Jones et al.

We now have a government who are taking sides (refusing to accept Israeli "occupation" of Palestinian territories) and labelling "Goodies versus Baddies" simplistically in a divisive and morally judgemental frame.

Moreover we also have the issue of asylum seekers with whom people who follow Islam may sympathise and feel defensive for. The more pressure and repulsion of asylum seekers, the more volatile people become. 

We need to end this absurd and dangerously destructive attitude to asylum seekers and focus on just and effective management which leads us to welcome genuine refugees. Inclusiveness has been shown in psychological studies to enhance social peace and harmony.

By rejecting humans for whatever reason we create a worsening spiral of racial conflict and a descent into division and conflict.
Well said Gerard... I second that... a centre party that is inclusive of all and manages our natural environment and resources in a symbiotic manner would be a natural addition.

Dreams become ideas... ideas become plans... plans in the hands of good people become reality.

Come on Good People: arise, awake and join the new movement that includes respectful democracy, inclusion and consensus.

aaahhhh you're right Gerard - one can dream!
Yes... the glorious war dead are the shame of the world.

I remember in the 60's Armistice day was well remembered because, as my old Pop explained to me, that we must be reminded that WW1 was fought "to end all wars" and that it was a failure and that we should never go to war again.

It seems we have not remembered Armistice day because we love to hear about war heroics and imagine ourselves firing that tommy gun. As such Mr Abbott exemplifies the schoolboy dreaming of being an action man war hero (ever seen the genuine thrill in his eyes as he sits in the cockpit of a JFS?). 

AAaaaahhh the bravery of being out of range!

Damn right Helvi, bless your little cotton socks.Touche Malcolm :-)
Lorenzo its called critical analysis. This is the Drum where ideas and political actions are analysed and critiqued. They did the same during the Labor years, but then Mr Abbott was making so much noise with his obfuscations and detractions that he demanded more critical analysis than did the Labor government. 

The content of Drum pieces, I guess, is founded upon the subject chosen by the author. The policy managing opinion pieces is neither left nor right, is not required to present balance as it is opinion from mostly independent authors.

Why not send in a piece of your own. If its good they'll likely publish it. Check out the section for Contributors mate.
Well said Steve...

It is unlikely that any self-respecting and well-tutored terrorist would use an ISP anyway. There are ways to by-pass local ISPs and be untraceable (I don't know the details because I'm not a "tech-head").

This is really just a beat-up and distraction from the Budget. Even if they put this to parliament, it will be waiting for months till all the destructive budget Bills get through first. We'll be waiting a long time to see any Bill presented.

From their explanation of what metadata is and the ill-conceived notion of how it is to be collected suggests to me they haven't even discussed this with any "tech-head".... they really don't have a clue with this idiotic thought-bubble.
Third attempt to get my main comment published... 

From last nights Lateline report and the interview with Mr Bret Walker SC from whom they have received advice on this matter, it appears that Mr Brandis and Mr Abbott haven't any clear understanding of what metadata is or how it is collected and managed.

They were either asleep when they were informed by their "tech-head" advisors or didn't bother to consult and have taken Mr Walker's advice and come up with a thought-bubble idea without bothering to read the details.

But this is all an Orwellian distraction. They can't get us into a war, as much as Mr Abbott would LOVE to do something as gung-ho as his mentor Mr Howard. They can't even get military into the Ukraine! Only a handful of coppers ("its the best we have to offer").

They don't want us to focus on the debacle that is the "budget" so they have put this idea up to keep our minds occupied on paranoia. 

But with so many repugnant budget Bills yet to be accepted in the coming term this thought-bubble will not get to the Senate for many months to come. Mr Wilkie will have plenty to say on this as it his area of expertise and I doubt very much it will pass the Senate without considerable modification.

If they are genuinely serious about this they will consult at length with the ISPs they want to collect and retain the metadata or arrange for a government agency such as the Office of National Assessments to develop the infrastructure to collect the metadata in a secure environment as other governments do.
Well said Night Traveller (I must read this... sounds existential enough)...  and thanks for the background too.

Its interesting that this whole issue is about establishing a bias against an accused with no need for the prosecution to balance their argument with the burden of evidence or to satisfy reasonable doubt.

Yet Mr Barnes' or the ABC'c critics are happy to use this principle (or lack of principle) in the same manner that Mr Brandis would approve.

NO proof of bias against the govt... mere suspicion. And neither the ABC nor Mr Barnes has evidence to support their non-bias so therefore they must be guilty.

Trial by mob-rule.

Fortunately this is not a trial, there are too few accusers to suggest guilt, and the burden of proof lies with the accuser.

No-one to my reading has provided proof beyond reasonable doubt that either Mr Barnes or the ABC are biased - I therefore find both defendants Not Guilty!
Could it be Beryl that these critical pieces are there because there is so very much wrong with the government?

It could also be because this site is a place for opinion pieces rather than factual news. There are many pieces I have read here that support the government too. We don't necessarily read or remember these though because they aren't so sensational as critique.

But we need critique in order to try different perspectives of a given situation. It enables full debate. Far better to read a view contrary to our own in order to better judge, and possibly change, our own view. It helps us to grow and develop a better understanding.
Excellent points Steve... thanks mate!

It is possible under this proposed legislation that those going to Israel to fight against Palestinians might be charged and found guilty. But I suppose that Mr Brandis would not consider the Israeli army to be a terrorist organisation regardless of the criminal targeting of innocents, sleeping people and children.

By this same principle, those fighting in support of the Syrian government may not be charged while someone fighting for freedom alongside non-aligned, non-terrorist groups against Assad may be found guilty regardless of the moral right of the people against an oppressive dictator.
****"the prosecution do not have to prove beyond reasonable doubt that they committed that offence is an affront to a nation that purports to be liberal and democratic"****

I am an old Rumpole fan and so I hold this central fundamental principle of out courts to be among the most important in our legal system. The very concept that one may be found guilty because either one cannot prove they were doing something innocuous or that the prosecution has only circumstantial evidence or even mere suspicion that one has been fighting with a jihadist group is very worrying.

To remove the burden of proof/evidence is extremely dangerous. Such ensures that some will be found guilty regardless of facts. This harks back to Maoist Cultural Revolution and Stalinist show trials. "Guilty until proven Innocent" has been the great joke that highlights the superiority of Law over mob rule.

But it seems to be typical of this government. We want to make everything we want to do easier! less need to doubt our desired outcome! no risk that a perceived/imagined culprit will go unpunished regardless of the facts!

This is a vengeful child's dream come true. It reminds me of teenage fantasies of getting revenge on our imagined antagonists without any danger of "Them" getting away! It is childish and inappropriate in a just democratic state.
Neither will this law stop Australian "jihadists" from going to the IS to fight. Laws such as this deter only reasonable people who consider the consequences of their actions. Young men wanting to do their bit for freedom, as they would explain it, would not be deterred because they think only of the propaganda that has filled their heads. After all they're thinking of paradise with more houris than you can poke a stick at!Exactly! The government of the day, whatever persuasion, will define terrorism according to their own beliefs and interests.

There have already been reports that this government wants to stop ordinary people signing "third party petitions"... such as those to stop dredge dumping on the Great Barrier Reef or to address the problem of sex attacks being used to intimidate families in African states.

There is a bigger picture here that they are not telling us about. This law could be used for many nefarious purposes to suppress dissent or critical opposition.

The presumption of innocence is the fundamental tenet that supports fairness in our legal system and must not be surrendered.
Brian, you are giving Mr Abbott too much credit here. He didn't negotiate any FTAs as these had been under negotiation since Mr Howard commenced negotiations. The Labor govt continued the process and were holding out for reductions in Japans' trade tariffs (in the case of Japan).

Mr Abbott has only capitulated on these agreements to claim the glossy photos of handshakes. He even arranged red carpets all over the place to prop his need for recognition. Mr Abbott did nothing to deserve any credit here.

Honestly though Brian, sarcasm doesn't make an effective argument. Your bias against the Labor govts provoke thoughts of bigotry. Very sad mate.
I was wondering where all the Liberal Trolls and apparatchiks had gone Brian... not too many of you on this piece. But its good to see you being faithful in the face of stark realisation that Mssrs Abbott and Hockey haven't got a clue.

The budget has been shown again and again to be inappropriate and biased. And this is the one number that you don't mention among the alternatives. The sensible resolution is to give your party a second chance, if they are willing to take it up. A re-worked budget is necessary.

But failing that the Libs must re-assess their leadership. Mr Hockey is the perfect scapegoat and must resign. If he is unwilling a cabinet reshuffle is the next option. This may save Mr Abbott if the re-worked budget is more sensible.
"It would be interesting to see just how many of us would put up with so much scrutiny and bullying before chucking it in.
The resolve of the Government is to be admired. Under enormous pressure from interested "groups", they(the Government) have stood firm.
We want a Government to back itself and not curl up in a little ball every time someone critisizes them."

This reads very much like support for the former Gillard Govt! Points of view are often founded upon perception - indeed personal preferences. 

My preference is for governance that is soundly representing all Australians rather than a small and powerful sub-section. This budget clearly shows the government's preference to support carbon energy and mining and wealthy shareholders. All others must do the "heavy lifting" Thus this government does not represent all Australians.

But you deny your Liberal supporter status then give valid reasons why you "should never allow such a Gobernment to ever be in power again" - therefore admitting a rusted-on bias for conservative governance and anti-Labor!

I respect your choices Brian - but this returns me to my question - Where have all the Lib trolls gone? Are they hiding in shame? Have they converted because the Abbott Govt is so atrociously destructive to our economy and social values? Will they mount an internal revolution for a return to genuine liberal values?

The Abbott Govt has shown appalling incompetence in their budget and this is the point of Chris' piece above. This has nothing to do with the inept Mr Shorten or the Labor Party. You have to face the reality here Brian - there are very few now supportive of the Liberal Govt.

They have lied too blatantly, broken so many "promises" and hurt too many Australians with their welfare cuts. They actually threaten to increase homelessness, crime and suicide with the Newstart changes.

I could write pages on this but I would love to read your answer to Mr Bergs piece rather than merely blame Labor. So what do you say Brian?

Wow... such honesty from a LNP supporter. My respects to you.

Do you consider Malcolm Turnbull may do a better job? What is your preferred solution to the current debacle?

I believe that Mr Abbott got the job because he is John Howard's protege and this is why he cannot address the structural deficit that Mr Howard created. What is your view on this?

More importantly, do you think the budget actually addresses Liberal Party values in hitting the poor so hard in the budget and damaging non-mining industries, especially renewable energy industries, while spending billions to support mining?

I have wondered long how a true, genuine Liberal might respond to these and look forward to your response.
Hi Dave... I agree that the Rudd government was choc-full of BS and mismanagement. Yet you attack the most efficient, effective and progressive government we have had since Hawke. The Gillard govt was not "loopy and loopier left" but a coalition (just the same as the Lib/Nat coalition) which developed and processed some of the best legislation in decades.

You know, those that describe their political opposites as lunatic, loopy and loopier left do nothing but demonstrate ignorance. I respect your views as a sensible contribution to democracy until you come out with such trash. My political leaning may be described as "Left", but neither I nor many whom I know are lunatic. I suggest you learn to respect democracy my friend and appreciate the values of all arguments.

Democracy is not really about Us and Them. Its about all of us pulling together to find the best way to construct the best governance for the nation as a whole.

namasteExcuse me please Rough Passage, but I make the observation that the structural deficit they are attempting to address, and wrongful in their approach, was the tax cuts (election sales pitches) by Mr Howard. They're only blaming Labor because they can shout loudest and this was their election pitch.

Balancing the budget does not mean penalising the least able to shoulder the burden of the structural deficit. Nor does it mean taxing medical patients in order to funnel monies into a slush fund. 

If they are serious about redressing imbalances they should be looking at Mr Howard's mutli-billion pressie to the mining companies, the diesel rebate. They should be honest enough to admit that taxes are too low for the wealthy and remove all government benefits for those earning over $150k and have them paying a fairer (proportional) share of tax.

Moreover, if this is a true government with the future industrial interest at heart they should be promoting renewable energy technology and reducing their support from carbon energy mining and processing. The former is taking off globally while the latter is a dying industry and needs to be properly buried.
Excellent piece of writing Chris. And you are quite right: the budget must be surrendered to history as one of the worst government errors in history.

Joe Hockey, being the chief architect and salesman, is the prime target here. He must either resign his portfolio or be sacked. By his own admission, the budget would have been "much tougher" if he had his way.

This would be best done via a cabinet reshuffle. This would protect many people's image for their are many incompetents amid the cabinet. This would also allow Mr Abbott to address the misogynist bias.

But a re-worked budget is essential. With all its flaws the current budget is unworkable and unacceptable.

Ultimately, Mr Abbott himself is the most important post to replace. He has guided his misguided colleagues and must bear ultimate responsibility. If he stays on it is likely the Liberal ship of State will founder upon the rock of internal division that are appearing in the low tide and stormy waves threaten to heave him upon them to his doom.
I hate to admit, but I agree with you that Labor are deep in the wilderness and will stay there until genuine reforms have been completed.

I don't imagine Mr Shorten doing much better than Mr Abbott. Mr Abbott made a terrific speech and demonstrated leadership right after the incident but his management has been appalling ever since. Can you imagine that the "best we have to offer" is a bunch of security guards? What of our technical expertise? Ah but he's not a "tech-head" is he, so technological expertise doesn't exist.

Great prediction for the future of the Libs. With the current front rank being so aggressive, unless there is significant change within the Party, I doubt Mr Turnbull will get a look in. He's too moderate and a progressive himself.

Y'know, I had a foresight into the likelihood of an Abbott/Putin punch up complete with Ms Bishop death-stares across the Security Council table... It didn't take long. Pugilists love to bridge up when they get the chance - and this is Abbott's chance to show his muscle!

This is the signature of the Abbott Govt. to be bullishly aggressive and to ignore that which they do not understand, such as technology, R&amp;D, science etc. To buy votes where they can and to bully those who have no voices.

To my thinking this is the real reason why the Abbott Govt should go - but hey, we were stuck with Mr Howard for 12 years: Mr Abbott doesn't have a scrap of Howard's acumen but he certainly has the gab to woo the "lower-level"voter.
Aaahhh... the cycle of profit and growth which feeds the cycle of poverty for those who cannot get their heads above their debts.

The entrenched spiral of divergent wealth, or lack thereof.

Spot on Perilunar.The PPL is one of Mr Abbott's vote buying exercises announced in early February (I forget how long ago it was) after an intense January with his mentor John Howard.

Mr Howard was a great one for releasing fantastic pressies for the wealthy. This was done without caucus or party awareness let alone opportunity to discuss, refine or vote on the plan.

It is over-rated, prohibitively expensive and unnecessary given the sensible plan already established by the Gillard govt.

The PPL is symbolic of the failure of Mr Abbott to get the knowing support of voters. It is the sweetener that was the self-proclaimed central pillar of Mr Abbott's election win.

So the question arises: Will the voters who were swayed by this plan abandon their support if the PPL does not progress to completion?

Given all the disastrous consequences of the budget, Mr Abbott has got quite a mountain to climb to retain government come the next election (come on, lets get it over with please).
Yes IT, the Labor party are fencing themselves into a place where than can hardly extricate some reasonable values that will attract voters.

They're too busy navel gazing and trying to fix their own show. This is now a rabble all shouting Yes we go this way: No we go that way! And so they will rattle on for several years to come. No wonder they are so damned ineffectual.

It would be sensible for Labor to form a coalition with the Greens. If this were to happen they may stand a chance. But the Greens have high ethical standards and this is at odds with the esprit of Labor's union roots. The Greens won't tolerate much of the BS that comes from the rabble of unionists who are really there for their own self-interests.

Bring back the Democrats perhaps?
There are many ways to address any given problem. Yet the Abbott govt seems hell-bent on insisting that their way "is the only way" according to Mssrs Morrison, Pyne, Abetz, and of course Abbott. So far only Pyne and Hockey have made any moves to assert that they may compromise - but this has yet to bear fruit. 

Yet the vested interests and corporate and professional lobbyists are given consideration only they agree with the LNP beliefs. 

Science has been toss into the bottom drawer of the industry portfolio with climate science being buried as if it were a dead relation sent to the crematorium for final (gas powered) obliteration.

There is no indication that they're listening to ethicists, economists (such as Joseph Stiglitz) or even to members of their own Party. Mr Hockey has even rejected out of hand the criticisms of the Liberals "Best ever Treasurer". 

Could it be that they are afraid that they are wrong and in denial like a teenager who just wants to do what he wants to do with vehemence?
"... it has reminded people that we live in a society not an economy ..."

But it doesn't seem that either Mr Hockey nor anyone els on the front bench has picked up on this yet.

With an ineffectual opposition and Mr Palmer conducting his own orchestra while flying all over the place attending to business rather than focussing on parliament, there is really no opponent other than the community to remind the govt that we ARE people rather than figures. And the govt doesn't seem to want to hear anything that disagrees with what they already believe.

This will bring down the govt at the next election (whenever that comes around) but only if there is a suitable alternative.

With Labor struggling over its own navel and the Greens (despite having the most sound policies of all) remaining unable to capture the voters imagination - an election could still result in the return of an Abbott govt. Oh horror that such reptiles should rule...
You're right blax... I did forget the absurdly expensive and (according to experts last year) bad choice JSF!

Such an expensive item should be the first to go in times of austerity. But of course hospitals and schools are less important than the prestige of Mr Abbott being able to sit in the most impressive looking jet that he can imagine! Such a schoolboy...
Oh dear Pete... I could take you to task over so many points here - you have presented many targets.

You're right that nothing is promised in life - no security or promise of fulfilment. However the whole point of having a government is to:

 a) provide the essential services such as hospitals and schools to ensure that our society is healthy and educated,

 b) to ensure businesses do not take inappropriate advantage (exploit) their workers and finally 

c) to manage economic dynamics to ensure that the economy pays sufficient and provides assurance of adequate regulation congruent with the needs society.

Small government within reasonable bounds is OK but not a totally hands off symbolic government.

The Abbott govt is failing badly in this and is spending absurdly in the wrong places such as the JSF and tightening without comprehension of the consequences of their actions.

But lastly  it is the "pushing harder" attitude of a govt that cannot accept that there are alternatives to their plans that will achieve what they want without the unnecessary pain to low income earners.

They are largely ideologically opposed to the Labor party (its nice to see them differentiate themselves by moving the furthest to the right wing than any Aus govt has ever dared). Hence the removal of the sensible, effective and profitable Carbon Price!

They are truly cutting off their noses to spite their faces Pete.
The Abbott govt has attempted to dismantle much sensible and responsible govt legislation. One prime example is the Carbon Price which was providing large sums of money to revenue and proved highly effective, and globally lauded, at reducing carbon emissions. Its just fortunate that the Senate was able to block abolition of the ancillary facilities such as ARENA and the RET.

They haven't been able to achieve much yet, due primarily to the abhorrence of their plans. Dismantling the federal management of education and health are two more prime examples.

Honestly Fred, they don't seem to realise what a government is supposed to do. Their ideology is too far right wing to be tolerated in a nation built upon appropriate community supports.
PS TC... you might note that there are no longer many supporters of the government on the Drum forum these days... I wonder, do you know if they're hiding or have they defected in disgust?
Yes Vince... this is their belief alright.You're right Alfie. Both top and bottom income earning sections are parasites and bludgers. The lower section because they haven't the opportunity to get a job the upper because they take advantage of the taxation loopholes and special arrangements to minimise their tax.

Its not about actual tax amounts Alfie. Its about percentage of disposable income. Lets face it the poor have $0 disposable income whereas the wealthy aim to pay $0 tax. (I apologise to all those truly altruistic and genuine philanthropists who do not try to minimise their tax for this over-simplification).

Thus I have to ask you Alfie... is it right that a person earning $500,000/yr should pay the same dollar amount in tax as one on $50,000?
Damn right Dave. Even Mr Howard paid lip-service to the rights of the less well off and listened... sometimes without "reject(ing) that".

Mr Howard had the realistic understanding that the "Struggle Street/battlers" could make him or break him. Although Mr Abbott is Howard's protege, it doesn't seem that Mr Abbott has learned this important lesson from his mentor.

The language of the Lib front benchers is almost universally opposed to consideration of inequality and the impacts of inequitable taxation.

Please see my post for further on this point.
Well said Paul... a most excellent point which highlights why "fairness" is not an accurate tool for directing reason let alone political economics.

Ethics is a far more preferable tool. Ethics too can be fraught with divergent opinion but has the intelligence to rule out self-interest as a part of the measure.

On an ethical measure, the Gillard Govt achieved a high level of good. The Howard Govt had mixed approaches with consequent mixed results. Yet the Abbott Govt seems to be focussing purely on self-interest of the wealthy. This is the core to my own realisation of the incompetence that pervades the front bench.
Spot on the money Pavo!

Its all about disposable income.Great answer TLP... yet those at the top do so quite wilfully and with full knowledge that they are not paying their full share of taxation, while the bottom 5% have insufficient insight; they are anxious to boost their income and having no opportunity resort to illegal means.

We in the middle are squeezed for more while they at the top kick back and bludge on society while doing their utmost to extract more. The poor just struggle to make ends meet.

So what is "fair" and what is ethical. the distinction is remarkable.There have been numerous times throughout industrial history where equality has become the spirit of the times. Dickens writings sparked the initial awareness followed by post WW1 socialism. This was further pronounced post WW2 when economic growth raised the standard of living of almost all in Aus leading to the 50s-60's boom.

Even under Mr Howard's govt we had at least lip-service to the concept of social equality and responsibility.

But our present government has spread the propaganda that the wealthy are subsidising the poor with their greater contribution in taxes. This is a specious argument which conveniently ignores the fact of percentage of disposable income as a measure of how much tax should be paid.

If I have $1000 of disposable income and pay $100 in tax equals 10%: if you have $100000 disposable income and pay the same tax it is 0.1%. This, I think is the Liberal govt goal!!!

Yes this is a simplistic example yet clarifies my point. The wealthy do not subsidise the poor but the reverse. The poor are subsidising the wealthy!

For a fair and equitable taxation system should aim at equal percentage of disposable income! Therefore the wealthy, if everyone is paying 10% of their disposable income should be paying $10,000 compared with the poor person's $100.

Mr Hockey's argument forms a good example of the Abbott govt thinking, opposed to Mr Joseph Stiglitz's thinking.

There is more than a disconnect here. It is about suppressing the greater proportion of our society for the benefit of the wealthy. 

This will adversely effect our economy as the poor, being the far larger proportion of society, will have even less disposable income and therefore reduced GST and increased costs in meeting the needs of the poor. (cirkey its hard to condense this argument into a few paragraphs).
In you quiet and comfortable home and your economical car you don't realise the differences Dapsta.

It is false logic that is applied here. A specious argument based upon a false premise that for a society to be fair, all must pay the same taxes regardless of income. 

Does Mr Hockey have a greater right to drive a BMW X5 than my next door neighbour (a mechanic with a beat up old diesel ute)? Mr Hockey earns a 6 figure salary, my neighbour barely manages $50k. So given that Mr Hockey drives much more and uses much more fuel than my neighbour and assuming that Mr Hockey has more leisure time than my neighbour who often works 6 days a week with no business trips (and forgetting for a moment that diesel fuel isn't effected by the petrol levy): who pays a bigger proportion of their income and who uses more fuel?

I'm sure my neighbour would love the luxury but he has to work for a living.
Its not as if Mr Hockey was caught unawares neil. He made this comment during an interview, not a door-stop press. This comment reflects his world-view and his mind-set while constructing this budget.

This comment is the very model of Liberal Party thinking. That the "poor" are leeches upon the wealthy and the wealthy subsidise greatly the costs of services the wealthy don't use such as public health and public schools. Its an impost of "nobles oblige" and is fallacious.
I very much agree with you Peter. Its not often I encounter one with similar openess to discover a new method of governance/democracy.

I believe the adversarial party belief system of our present parliament presents as the root of most of our difficulties. Although a system of enforced independence would likely prove difficult it remains something that cannot yet be ruled out.

But realistically, party donations, with the extreme case in NSW right now, and professional lobbyists forcefully serving the interests of big business and utilising the old boy network for peddling influence must be addressed immediately.

I wonder why the Abbott government is silent on the Green proposal for a federal ICAC?
Good evening all... Are you Poor? Do you drive a car? Mr Hockey says that the "poor people" won't be effected by the increase fuel excise (if it gets through the Senate... This reminds me of a Simon and Garfunkel song "Why Don't You Write Me..."
There is the remarkably bigoted and specious argument going around since Mr Abbott came into Office that wealthy people pay far more taxes than poor people and so therefore they, the rich, are subsidising the poor!

This is logical. and it is indicative that logic can indeed be false because it takes a specific point and uses that as the foundation of reasoning. The specified point in this case is that the average amount paid should be met equally by all, regardless of income, in order for attain fairness.

This is obviously fallacious reasoning, yet the logic is sound. Its a bit like the three step logic of My MP is intelligent, Mr Hockey is and MP, therefore Mr Hockey is intelligent.

WRONG and patently so. Mr Hockey may be a very smart person and has been able to do sums ok. This does not qualify him as intelligent as intelligence requires a greater thinking than is required to pass the Liberal Party membership criteria.

This is not a faux pas. Mr Hockey has not made a blunder, except to express a deeply rooted (irrational) belief.

This is why He and others like him are unsuited to Parliament.
"... Hockey had a reasonable case to make yesterday when pointing out lower income households face a smaller cost increase because they buy less petrol than those with higher incomes..."

Sorry Paula, this is wrong. He did not make a "reasonable case" but used a false premise to make a specious argument  using concrete operational, simplistic logic. You know the stuff "all cats die, Socrates died, therefore Socrates is a cat."

This is the standard of Liberal Party thinking it seems. The argument going around since Mr Abbott came into Office is that the wealthy are subsiding the poor in taxes. The wealthy are the victims here and should be accorded the respect and gratitude of the poor for them enabling the poor to have an acceptable standard of living.

This too is wrong. It is propaganda being perpetrated by an elitist government wanting to enable a strengthening of the wealthy right to exploit and the poor being subject to the nobless oblige of the wealthy.

This is the world-view which is fundamental to the budget and the horrendous bias which pervades the argument.

This is the prime example which illustrates why this government is unfit to the task.

What an unrealistic response "Realist"!

Your argument that it is merely "the end of Medicare as we know it" just demonstrates how little you are aware of the arguments surrounding this terrible proposal.

It is very likely that health costs overall will increase as a consequence. People with chronic medical conditions need to have regular reviews in order to monitor for complications and worsening conditions. Certainly neither patients nor doctors want unnecessary appointments, but missing reviews will no doubt lead to unexpected complications which will result in Emergency Department visits and likely admissions..

This is the real argument against this so-called "price signal". 
You don't seem to understand the concept of social contract Ben. It is the responsibility of a government to ensure there is adequate provision of health, education and welfare services. These are the basic stuff of life apart from food and water.

This government, like you, don't seem to understand the concept of responsibility. 
What makes you think there is rorting Rusty? Do you think people have illnesses for fun? All these doctor visits are by people with Munchausens (a mental disorder which presents with fabricated medical conditions usually requiring surgical intervention)?
Great comment Terry.

Unfortunately this government which promised transparency, accountability and honesty have consistently maintained opacity to their arrangements and information, passing blame onto the former Labor governments and ... well what can one say... a lie is a lie after all.

We won't see any data that would assist us to examine or decide as to the need or potential benefits of a co-payment. They are wedding to the idea of commercial in confidence and so secrecy has become the mainstay of policy development (what a kind euphemism).

And besides... they are right after all (gee my cheek is full of tongue!)
Health care has nothing to do with economics Ben. Selling food is a demand driven system; health care is providing an essential service to maintain a healthy and productive society.

And besides, your ideological response did not answer Koel's question.
Its what they have been doing to smokers for many years. It means to make something so expensive it is no longer accessed/used.

It may be appropriate with tobacco or petrol, but not with an essential service necessary for the health of a productive society. It is logically identical with Workplace Health and Safety.
I am in complete agreement with your article Stephen. 

If Medicare needs increased funding we already have the Medicare Levy which can be increased without new legislation. 

This proposal makes horrendous complications and will have untenable impacts on the health care of those who need to see their GP more regularly. In effect this would be a tax on the unwell.

It has been said that it is about "sending a price signal". I understand this to mean that the govt considers that many medical appointments are unnecessary! It is not for the government to make this decision. They are not privy to medical consultations and so have no idea as to the necessity of that consultation.

The proposal is ridiculous, misguided, ill-considered and inappropriate.

Just another measure of the incompetence of the Abbott government.
"in countries which have a co-payment there is a significant reduction in unnecessary visits..."

Where do you get this idea Victor? I have looked at the research and it has been discussed on various fora as well. There is no evidence to support your argument.

What a sad cynical view you have of doctors.... and "people who use Medicare for recreational purposes..."? how absurd!But don't you yet understand AE that employment IS integral to our whole economy. It isn't just a few thousand jobs in the auto industry - it is all the many thousands of associated industries  as well as those who depend, like Coles and Woolies, on people having a reasonable income.

The domino effect of Toyota closing will echo down the chain and multiply the impact exponentially. Therefore the responsible government management would have maintained the support of a few hundred million in order to prevent billions of $ in productivity losses down the line as well as maintaining the well-being of society.

You really must learn to think outside your own nice little world AE.Yes Leftover... We older ones are caught in a real double bind here. 

457 workers have taken up much of the work will leave us with businesses and essential systems, such as hospitals, less costly, but our society less well-off through reduced pay-scales and work hours.

This push started under Mr Howard and the Rudd/Gillard govts didn't get around to fixing it.

We have been betrayed by all except the Greens for the sake of a burgeoning gross domestic product which is restricting wages and reducing hours of work thus making Australia poorer.

And you and I will just have to make the best we can of it.
Great insight Jeff Watt. This is the way of modern neoliberal conservative economics. There is no room for social responsibility.

But the big error in this ideology is the trickle down effect, which doesn't really work. The wealthy, getting richer from their mining shares, hoard their wealth and nobody benefits. One can only spend so much and then it becomes waste - something the wealthy abhor.

Driving down wages through imported, cheaper labour and increased mechanisation/reduced manual labour will ultimately shatter our economy unless our governments take a more creative approach to industry stimulus.

Reports are now showing the renewable energy industries elsewhere around the globe are employing more workers in high-tech jobs. Meanwhile china and India, our main clients for energy, are switching off coal-powered generation and massively building solar power generation. So soon our wealthy shareholders will be paying for the rehabilitation of their formerly profitable coal mines.

Our government is going down the conservative path of do nothing! Don't fund research (unless there is a patent attached) and don't worry about the consequences. They're ignoring international trends and, like a person caught in the vicious cycle of repeating mistakes in the hope of achieving a different, better result, are destroying our economy.Great analysis Greg... your play with figures can certainly tell different stories.

But... your graphs raise more questions than they answer. There appears to have been a massive "retirement" post GFC for one if your last graph is accurate. I don't think this answers the point of rising unemployment though. Or perhaps I don't really get your message.

However, I cannot help mentioning briefly the stark difference that Mr Rudd made to our employment figures post-GFC. The Libs and supporters keep claiming the associated spending wrecked our economy. I believe it saved our economy and I think you graphs prove the case.

But back to the present: with the ABS questions being changed we may expect a sudden shift in the figures reflecting the one-off change. Although you cannot tell much from two months figures, it won't show a trend yet, this months figure remains higher than last months, given the ABS questions remained the same. And quite a stark climb too!

You resist the temptation to draw a conclusion to your argument and I agree its too early in the Abbott term to realise a trend. Watch and wait and learn... 

Yet I cannot help adding that it seems that Mr Abbott's business focus is perhaps damaging business confidence. Unemployment is not falling as one might imagine given pre-election assurances... watch and wait and learn!
On the subject of Trust... is it really surprising that only a small proportion of people have trust in a government who doesn't trust us with their information, such as asylum seeker management?

There are too many variables at play within the context to draw meaningful conclusions from the data you have provided.

Even the under 35s bracket could be easily explained in terms of developmental processes. Similarly the over 55s group (of which I am a member) have reached a developmental stage where one can see more clearly into the subtleties of the government message.

But as the story has further expanded and more information brought in by way of ASIO and AFP bosses it becomes clearer. The main problem with this story is the way it was initially launched with Mssrs Abbott and Brandis making such a cock-up of it all. And this established a bias too.

No sorry Lewis and Woods... this is a non-story. Too much at play to form any conclusions... and too dated after 3 days to learn more.
Well put good sir... there is something they are not telling us of course.

The ASIO/AFP presentation shows a clear intent to use the metadata for security purposes, but the ad hoc announcement by Mssrs Abbott and Brandis, complete with fumbles and demonstration of a total lack of understanding, makes me very suspicious.
Many thanks Chris. As usual you have brought sufficient and pertinent information to this interesting discussion. Yet you seem to muddy the water as well.

I have been somewhat equivocal on this matter thinking that security is a vital attribute of governance yet trying to find a balance with the privacy we haven't really got. With all the tracking and scanning, monitoring and cookie trails that fill our daily internet and mobile phone usage, I have been considering privacy as a thing of the low-tech past.

But the context you provide gives us greater awareness of the government push. If as you say Europe has found metadata retention to be so useless surely our ASIO and AFP would be aware of the limited application for crime/terrorism monitoring? And isn't this at odds with the ubiquitous collection of our personal data by mobile systems and internet such as Google and Facebook? 

If the data is not useful for crime and/or terrorism policing then it must be wanted for other personal analysis. There must be an alternative purpose than that which they propose.

I don't trust this government for many reasons. So - Could this be for commercial interests? Now that would make more sense but what of the AFP and ASIO brass standing there telling us "Its for the Common Good!" and "will help us catch terrorists". Surely these are men of integrity who would not merely bow to political instruction on what to say? Especially from the dunder-headed Abbott and Brandis!

You give me pause for thought Chris, but I'm no more certain now than I was before I read your article. I for one must await further developments before I can decide on this issue.

And now to join the debate below (above)... no doubt the LibLab, left vs right arguments will ensure our democracy gets a great beat-up from this.
After reading (most of) the posts thus far it seems that many, like me, are not overly concerned with privacy. We are now so accustomed to having our data analysed by corporate interests (with all the Terms and Conditions we are asked to "Agree" to...) that privacy is rather meaningless.

But the point that Mr Brandis makes keeps nagging me. If "this is the way the west is going" then why are we still promoting coal and CSG extraction bucking the trend of the dying carbon energy globally? Is this at the request of ASIO/AFP? If so, surely they have good reason to ask...

I remain undecided. Too many questions arise from this debate: too little information and too much suspicion of political motives. 
You're right Jimmy... if you want to use a given programme, such as your own machine, processing software, websites such as Roads and Maritime Authority, ABC facebook etc etc, you are obliged to accept their terms etc. I have tried to read some of these and either got lost (I'm not a lawyer) or bored with the length and verbiage. So naturally you "Agree"!

Do you make an informed choice when using your computer? Can you use it if you refuse to "Agree"?
I honestly do not mean to "target" you Brian, but you write most eloquently. 

I believe, please correct me if I am wrong, that you fear the destruction that will inevitably come from the flux that would accompany an early election forced upon our current government.

Most people are fed up with the present Labor system and, while they are in a position of review and reform are unlikely to present a suitable alternative to the LNP govt. Thus an early election will likely result in a hung parliament and the uncertainty that may come from such "anarchy".

Yet, as has been shown repeatedly, a hung parliament is actually a good thing. The prevailing party would needs be forced to accept challenges to their own beliefs and policies and better outcomes would inevitably ensue. This was well demonstrated by the Gillard govt. The energy and productivity was remarkable. It is fair to say that some Bills didn't really end up as functional and there were bad outcomes, such as the MMRT. But generally the Gillard govt was high functioning and socially responsive and just.

This in contrast to the present situation which presents us with all the complaints that the Abbott Opposition levelled at Ms Gillard. This is a case of projection being seen as the mainstay flaw of the accuser. The dysfunction within both the leadership and the party, the incompetent budget (mis)management, the ad hoc thought-bubble policies, the total lack of consultation and lack of consideration of consequences... such a list of failings that the Abbott government is now seen as intolerable by the vast majority of Aussies.

You may say we are "whiners" and that we are "dumbing down" the debate by posting our critical comments - but it is honestly no less than Mr Abbott et al deserves.

You aren't fighting "the good fight" Brian, but are demonstrating a loyalty to an ideology that is not even represented by the Party you support. You are fighting a lost cause my friend.
Curiously, of the 115 comments I have just read, only 6 come out in support of the Government. I recall earlier this year there would be dozens of posts in support who would all attack any anti-govt comment with gusto.

Where have all the LNP supporters gone? Are they ashamed of our government? have they taken a group holiday in Fiji? gone off-shore with their businesses perhaps?

To APM, Ben the Lawyer and Brian Francis is left the unenviable position of having to defend the indefensible. Yet even they are sounding tired and lacking in motivation (Crikey, Ben is down to only one post on this page!).

It is sad to see a political movement lose its supporters in such droves. But this is the damage being done by their leadership. The Libs had a truly viable leader in Malcolm Turnbull but opted for Mr Howard's sunshine wonder-boy. Now the boy-genius is proving a fool and his "captain's pick" team equal to his own standard.

They are a disorganised rabble of thought-bubble oppositioners with no credible plan for the nation. Surely there must be some means of the Australian public to call for the sacking of such an incompetent mob?!
Brian I accept your criticism of my post above. I had considered making a post more pertinent to the topic but couldn't really make a meaningful point as I thought it was fairly well covered my Paula M.

As for "without support for Government we have anarchy...", I can't agree. We already have thought-bubble anarchy as evidenced by Mssrs Abbott and Brandis leaving Mr Turnbull out of the discussions regarding metadata (and by crikey they certainly could have benefitted well from some knowledgeable advice!).

To support an insupportable regime is contrary to the national interest in my opinion. To encourage such an incompetent and irrational government is to condone their actions. Therefore I cannot see how anyone could provide support.

We are facing a national crisis as this ad hoc policy "development" continues. The metadata debacle is a prime example of the worst management style I have ever seen. Mr Abbott has shown again that he is not interested in consultation or listening to others' opinions. He is not interested in facts or the implications/consequences for the Aus people.

I cannot understand how you Brian as a rational and intelligent person can continue to support this rabble.
You have done an excellent critique of Tim Dean's article Chris, although your obvious bias leads you to make your critique more of an attack rather than analysis.

I believe religion has no place in schools. Therefore I too have a strong bias. Dean's argument is important in that it focuses on the true nature of education. This is where your argument is weak. 

This does come down to the two primary facts of difference between your religious view and Dean's secular view. You prefer the old indoctrination of students to a particular world view that you think is right, while Dean advocates that education is about helping students to learn how to assess, analyse and form an opinion that is valid on what they are taught or experience. This goes against Faith.

Religion is an intensely personal experience. It is often, but not always, a family matter and is misplaced in the education system. If any religion should be taught in schools it should be unbiased comparative studies. 

But ethics teaches critical thinking. This is necessary for young people to learn to make valid decisions. It allows a freeing of decision making. This does include faith based decisions. Therefore you should not feel so obviously threatened by ethical studies but encouraged. 

If a person decides to adopt a faith it needs to be a genuine decision that is not merely following the crowd or doing what the family has always done. If a person merely follows unthinkingly their faith will be limited; if a sincere decision is made it will be based upon genuine belief.

Have faith in students Chris and don't fear ethics.
Well said Dr Rosewarne... 

Ms Lambie is the most frank and honest person I have heard in politics. However I do recognise that she is somewhat uninhibited or schooled to reason and political discourse. She is crude and vulgar... but so are many male politicians.

Your response is entirely appropriate, yet so are the critics of Ms Lambie.

She lacks subtlety, discernment or reasoned judgement is the point here.
Lovely to find I'm in agreement with you Zing. Mr Abbott has overstepped his mark, as he often does. His belligerence will only inspire resentment and add fuel to the fire. Far better to include Mr Putin and use the G20 to apply subtle pressure to gain compliance via diplomatic processes.
Exclusion does have an impact on malefactors, unless they are sufficiently arrogant to believe in their own righteousness. Mr Abbott should recognise this from his own experience.

It serves no useful purpose for Mr Abbott to be belligerent either. A belligerent person will often reject anothers' belligerence and see it more as a challenge than some kind of reproach.

The Abbott Govt are here showing only a stunning ignorance of diplomacy and problem solving in relationships.

I had imagined how Mr Abbott and Ms Bishop would respond to any conflict with Mr Putin. They haven't disappointed me.
Than you Greg for giving the truth of the cost and benefits of the Carbon Price. It has been a very workable and effective system that has had huge benefits. This proves the LNP govt is trying to ditch the carbon price purely from vested interest reasons.

The carbon price was the reform we had to have. It was Julia Gillard's best job done - well negotiated and with a sensible balance.

Moreover, your graphs certainly demonstrate definitively that the Labor govt spend during the GFC was well done too. This is not of course a reform action although it certainly shows that Mr Hockey's absurd and unbalanced budget is going the wrong way to boost the economy. I suggest that it will actually harm our economy by removing the spending power of those who have so little. This budget is 'anti-reform' in that it will do the nation harm instead of good.

I have noted for many years that Labor Govts make valuable reforms, then the LNP takes Office and does everything it can to undo the reforms so as to return to a status quo that supposedly makes it easier for business to make bigger profits.

Although I must give credit to Mr Howard, as much as I despised him for his racist attacks on asylum seekers for political gain. Yet he did some good. But Mr Howard's greatest benefit was to show just how incompetent a LNP govt can be!
Another great piece by the redoubtable Mr Barns. A laudable write!

But of course this highlights the inconsistency of Mr Brandis' thinking. First he wants to remove limits to "Free Speech" so that his bigoted mates can bash dole bludgers and anyone else they have a mid to hate, then he wants FOFA laws diluted so that fees/commissions can be kept secret as well as alternative investments which may be better for the consumer. Now he wants secrecy (I wonder why...) to be protected to the nth degree. Whats his game?

Is he protecting his colleague Mr Morrison from potential whistle-blowers in the navy/customs Border Force?

This indicates that there is more to this government than we know. They are preparing to protect themselves from exposure and prosecution I think.

This is a dodgy mob, no doubt about it! They are untrustworthy and not suited to the Office of Government.
Zing you miss another point yourself... that whistleblowing is a protected position at least here in Aus. There are even encouragements to whistleblowing where an organisation is committing an offence. 

Do you really want to stop people from informing the police of an illegal activity? I don't think that is your motivation here, but that is truly the point of this legislation (at least as Mr Barns shows it to be).
.You've got it Zing ...  "The moment the (Aus) government starts dismissing the legal system, they are accused of abusing their power and acting against the public interest..."

Thats exactly what Mr Brandis and Mr Morrison are about my friend. Got it at last!

   "If (Brandis) is going to dismiss the legal system and hide from it, he should be subject to the same accusations..."

You said it!Very true Who... And this is where the Abbott Govt gets it wrong. They have forgotten this important principle. Perhaps this is the reason for Australians complacency or apathy... that we are too well-fed and entertained. Thus we forget the real reasons for us to be engaged in political debate.

But Mr Abbott is threatening many peoples appetite and sources for food by making them poorer and thus hungrier. He will rue this one day.
Correction Jimmy... That exactly what Mr Brandis is wanting to do with the changes to the discrimination laws. Currently, bigotry can be considered an offence under law. He wants to allow bigoted views to be aired without risk."governments have the mandate to keep secrets..."

True! but not to commit illegal activities. 

I have not read the Bill, and I doubt that you have either, os neither of us can say that there are protections for whistleblowers. Yet the discussion here shows great cause for concern for the protections that are there. It reads very much as if those protections are being removed.

Hence I believe that your faith in the Abbott govt is misplaced. The evidence points to the contrary.
Beautifully written Malcolm. and all very true too.

This is all about preserving the status quo: the retention of coal as the principle source of energy in this country. Never mind what the rest of the world is doing, coal is power, power is right, right is might!

And abandon old industries that weren't making a buck (never mind the job losses), abandon the new industries that could provide Australia with a sustainable technology base for future employment - crikey even abandon R&amp;D to develop new technologies which might (just might) undermine the Big Miners.

I agree with you Malcolm... "For the good of the country it is time for him and the Coalition to go."
"Any suggestion that the world sees this issue as a top order priority are false."

Like a happy little debunker above, you haven't been keeping up with the conversation have you. Copenhagen was a disappointment that cost us all badly and was due to political disagreement as to mostly due to the Americans and Chinese. They are both now fully behind carbon pricing and has instituted their own systems to address the climate change. 

We have a world best standard practice now in place. Economists all come out of the closet and support it. But you would have us do nothing? Who do you think knows what they are talking about? Even your gamble offer is foolish.That doesn't mean we should do nothing Evan... adaptation will be necessary and that of course includes the means to mitigate and to reduce our carbon footprint. 
Your article Mr Verrender paints the picture of our present dilemma in the lurid colours of a surrealist farce. Pretty accurate I say. 

The actions of the Abbott government are indeed lurid, colourful characters abound in bright yellows and blues and the surreal image, of "Axing" a sensible well-considered and internationally lauded carbon price (the sort of price signal that the government seems to like) in preference for a huge spend that will only benefit the industries that are hoping that we will do nothing at all to reduce our carbon footprint, stands starkly before us all in terrifying 3D and surround sound. It is no still life picture of roses thats for certain.

The debate, if such a cacophony of brawling screamers can be so described, has lost any relation to science or economics. Those who support the carbon price are shouted down as scare-mongers, loonie lefties, tree-huggers or more often just plain idiots. 

Those who want nothing done at all are the righteous who have shares in those vast gaping ulcers on the surface of our planet who want nothing more than the freedom to mine and sell their carbon to the highest bidder all in the name of making nice profits for their shareholders.

Who is correct? The simple truth is that the carbon price is the best system according to science and economists. There seems to be consensus that action needs to be taken. Yet Mr Abbott's direct action policy is yet to be elucidated. Just planting trees and sowing wheat paddocks with carbon from what I've heard thus far.

The farce continues this week with everyone saying the sensible policy will go and the carbon miners pressie will be commenced (sometime). What a long way we have come in our democracy!
They were a little slow off the mark this morning :-)Thank you Professor for your candid opinion. I am content that the High Court can rule on this contentious matter. 

But for the present the lives of these innocent people hangs in the balance. And the detention at sea seems dangerous and cruel. Is there any legal decision that can be made in the interim about their detention?

Health and safety aside, the detention seems to me to be breaching their human rights. Surely the children at least MUST be brought to land where they can have access to education, exercise and away from the fetid air of the ships interior.
Excellent point Fred... The point is that this sets a precedence for such secrecy and security actions to occur. It sets a new paradigm for security forces, under whatever name, to function within - far beyond anything I have ever heard of in Australia.

Moreover Fred, you point to the historical use of similar actions taken by dictatorial  regimes which suggests the practice of disappearances.

This is a thought which I had not previously connected. Thank you.
Crikey Peter... are you alright mate... this rant sounds a wee bit desperate. 

I read your stuff because I respect the right of everyone to speak and I have a similar right to learn from everyone's views. I also respect your right to be angry Peter. I wish you well. Good luck old feller.I agree with frangipani here... I would add that Al Jazeera reports that the 153 people were resident in a UNHCR refugee camp in Tamil Naidu "for a long period" prior to boarding their boat. 

One might speculate that they had arrived in Tamil Naidu after experiencing military action at least in northern Sri Lanka... but it is only speculation.
That was certainly Mr Howard's practice... I doubt that Mr Abbott has the given it that much thought.
Spot on Splod1... 

Mr Abbott's approach is so intensely arrogant and ignorant that he presents a threat to Indonesia. Should Mr Probowo win Office there is a likelihood of conflict. I just hope that the seemingly more moderate, calm and ethical Jokowi gets enough votes.
Given Mr Probowo's history and demeanor I am very worried that if he assumes power Australia may end up at war with Indonesia given Mr Abbott's push to bounce back all asylum seekers. The contrast between these two seems to me to be a scenario for a battle of the righteous and bullish muscle-men! A more foolish pairing could barely be imagined.

There are many similarities in their anti-democratic authoritarianism, the self-belief and ambition. But they are poles apart due to their nationalism. Each considers the sovereignty of the other to be of lesser importance. The battle would be testosterone driven nationalism!

a recipe for disaster!
Why? Desperation to find a safe home for themselves and their children perhaps? If they are genuine, and I think they are, their actions are understandable. Hence the question of this article.Have you ever heard the story of the good samaritan? Have you any sense of decency and ethical conduct?

I'm certain that if you were in desperate straits, you too would be waving your arms crying "Please Help Me!"... and you would be right in your hope and I would feel obligated and compassionate for you and your plight.

People come here looking for help in desperation. If they wanted to enter Aus illegally, they would obtain a tourist visa and fly into our airports like all the other over-stayers on tourist visas.

They have come here by the only means available. There have been no other viable ports open to them. Hence the perilous journey.

We have an obligation to help. We have the compassion to help. We have the time, money, space and opportunity to help and we WILL help in any way they need us to.

namaste Aus sutra... may you learn your karmic lesson and be detached from your personal wants and fears so that compassion may fill your heart.Thank you Dr Chia for your balanced and informative article. I have longed for serious and genuine information on this matter and the ABC has been silent on this for two days.

One question remains unanswered though. If Australian authorities take asylum seekers on board an official customs vessel and conduct even this rudimentary assessment are they not then subject to Australian law? 

The vessel and crew being an official representative of the Australian government conducting government business. Is this not the same as if the people had been under Australian control and therefore under Australian law?
xxx... your argument is valid insofar as people smugglers are concerned. Yet it is the asylum seekers who are being mistreated here and this is the argument in question: - Not people smugglers!

There is no need to treat asylum seekers in this obscene manner. It is cruel and inhumane and contrary to international law - and to our laws. 

The government has done a tricky job here by catching the asylum seekers in the contiguous zone. It allows them to make a specious argument that they are not bound by these laws purely on the grounds of distance from the territorial waters. This is why it is now before the High Court.
Mike, has it occurred to you that their safety may not be assured in these other "dozens of countries"? That they may face similar or worse persecution and that they may have serious disadvantages in earning an income (such as in Indonesia where they are not allowed to work)?

Do you really think they would placed their lives and the lives of their children in such danger if there were better options?

Your argument is invalidated by your lack of consideration as to why these people resort to a dangerous sea voyage. Do try not to judge them so harshly without knowing why they are there.
There are better ways to prevent boats from leaving Indonesia without resorting to human rights atrocities and lies to the Aus people Simon.

This is the WORST possible means of managing this problem. 
Well said brother.

Simon and Greg above reckon they're the majority. From my experience the majority tend to be silent and complaisant. 

My MP tells me that the "vast majority" of his electorate agree with the Abbott Govt. I very much doubt that.

We shall see at the next election (and it can't come too soon)
Alfie, it wasn't "the left" that failed on asylum seeker policy... that was the Labor Party trying to capture some of the right by sticking to right wing extremist policy... no wonder they failed!

bytheway, "right" in politics doesn't mean "correct" or what is best. It is a position to one side of centre. A good balanced political opinion may be centrist but even that doesn't mean that which is ethically right. Good sound policy relies on an ethical framework within a practically applicable policy. It is that ethic that provides the answer as to whether something is good policy.
If Labor proposes it, it will be entirely different. The Greens do not oppose merely because it comes from a Liberal Govt. If you look at their policies you will find they have much to say on this issue that you may agree with. If you consider Greens voting you will note they are not partisan (as the Liberals are) but assess each Bill on its merits and decide accordingly.
I agree that "some households work better with the Nanny option" but does that mean the concept requires govt funding? Those mothers who want to work full-time will earn over their lifetime much more than those who want to provide full-time mothering to their children. 

Using the govt maths, unpaid full-time mothers, and parents who work part-time and send their children to child-care will then be subsidising full-time working, part-time parents. Is this right?You have a very valid point here Jay. Our society has changed enormously since the 50s &amp; 60s when extended family took care of small children and the elderly. There have been numerous sociological studies examining this very question. We have lost so much because of our social and career mobility.

However most educators will stress the importance of socialisation among small children and highlight the value of a structured learning environment to commence as early as possible.

Its a contentious issue but the way we presently are places little value on the extended family as child carers. Having been one who was moved from relative to relative during my formative years, there are many problems associated with this form of care.
"its terms of reference clearly outlined that no extra funding of the sector would be made available"

I have heard reported and discussed on the Drum last night that the drive from the productivity commission is to reduce the standards of care in child care. This means no longer having university educated childcare workers.

This same push has gone through the education and health sectors with downward pressure on wages and on educational standards of workers in the field.

Where once, if you were admitted to hospital, you would have a registered nurse, i.e.; someone who had a wealth of knowledge, training and experience, caring for you, monitoring your health status and ensuring that your physical changes were adequately brought to a doctors attention, you now have ill-trained nursing assistants who report to one or two RNs. This is dangerous but so much cheaper!

And it is getting worse under the Abbott government. Is this what we want? Do we want to go backwards in our childcare? Is it all about cost and nothing else?

Now the push is for untrained "nannies" for those who want to work full-time. Never mind the benefits of socialisation and education afforded in childcare, the Abbott government wants to add untrained live-in baby-sitters. What a farce!
Totally agree Erica :-)Are you aware that over 38000 refugees have arrived in Italy and Greece this year (so far). Meanwhile we have to reject even those coming by plane now (according to Mr Morrison today).

Al Jazeera are reporting that there continue to be much persecution of Tamils in Sri Lanka along with popular racist riots. Moreover the ABC today reported that Sri Lanka still has large numbers of "disappearances" of Tamils.

Mr Abbott has said today that Sri Lanka is a very "peaceful" place. It doesn't sound like he is very well informed - either that or he is lying.

We have a legal obligation under UN charters to accept, assess and resettle asylum seekers. We are not adhering to our responsibilities and making ourselves a most inhumane society.
"Unless they are prepared to nominate a figure, then they are not even in the debate." ... Why?

Are you qualified to suggest what our maximum population should be? Can you make an informed opinion on this? Are you a qualified social engineer?

And what of democracy? Currently our climate debate is dominated by people who are entirely ignorant of even the basic physics involved. Should they be barred from making an opinion known?

I wouldn't try to silence you my friend. Why should you attack others right to make an argument on this issue?

Besides this, this debate is about managing asylum seekers - not our national population.
Population explosion occurs in hostile environments among ill-educated people with limited access to adequate health services and advice.

Helping people to come to Aus sensibly, humanely, safely; resettling in supportive communities, as all Aus towns and cities are when they get to know real people, and providing education, work opportunities and health services will result in reduced reproduction. 

Overpopulation is a global issue, it is dealt with at a local level. Help these people find a safe home and they will help too.
I agree Harquebus... Amnesty Int, Oxfam, UNHCR and many other UN and NGOs have been working toward this for decades and I'm sure with your good sense (that I often applaud) you have been working toward this too.

Yet we continue to have Nth Korea, radicalised "muslims" (selective muslims perhaps) and mere despots continuing to harass, intimidate, torture, "disappear" people and destroy the lives of people in their care. Therefore we need to continue to work at both ends of this problem and cannot afford to ignore, neglect or mistreat asylum seekers.
Just over this last week the Greek and Italian governments have had to "rescue" thousands of refugees and migrants from the Mediterranean. The predominant attitude is that these are people first - and as such deserve to be treated not as cattle or as invaders to be repelled or got rid of, but as people with real trauma that has driven them to leaky boats (yes its the same type of leaky boats)

As we know, these governments are in dire financial straits, yet their compassion and genuine desire to help desperate people shames Australia and Australians. 

Our government conversely is prepared to risk international sanctions and possible criminal charges to reject people in similar circumstances. There are even reports that they are prepared to return Tamil refugees to the very perpetrators of torture and murder from whom they are trying to escape.

Certainly these are reports only - conjecture if you will - but our government is saying nothing. They prefer to deny their own commitment to transparency, "adult" management (by which it seems childish humiliation and almost vengeful intimidation and worse imprisonment than they would impose on Australian murderers and paedophiles. Children placed in these appalling conditions! 

"Where is the political party - any political party - working to do what we once did with the Vietnamese and the Europeans? Who has the vision to see new arrivals not as an inconvenience but as an opportunity?"

Answer?: - the Greens are the only party with realistic policies to address the refugee crisis and to "Stop the Boats".

This present situation cannot continue. We are causing dreadful hardship and severe psychological damage to innocent people to make a point. A meaningless point of "NO!" to people (people smugglers) who will not listen. After all it is not the people smugglers who are at risk.

We need a total rethink and open debate (sans political ideologues and vested interests) to address this. Obviously our present system is an utter failure!
The "earn or learn" is so obviously just another three-word phrase designed to obscure the fact that this government doesn't have a clue whats going on. It also is more of the move to bash the poor in their "Class War". 

Mr Hockeys "end to the age of entitlement" is more of the same and indicative of their effort to blame the Labor Government for their own mismanagement.

Since Ms Gillard reduced Newstart to starvation level kids just cannot manage to survive without "earning or learning". Its just impossible on that pittance. The disability benefit rules were tightened so effectively that its extremely difficult to obtain this benefit.

If Mr Abbott's government were to tighten these any more they might as well remove all supports entirely... oh what?! yes of course... that just what they're doing!

And of course the Age of Entitlement remains for those in big business such as aluminium smelters and coal mines and chocolate factories.

I usually try to find something  positive to balance my anti-Abbott perspective - but on this subject there is nothing positive at all. Just more evidence that our government just takes their thought bubbles, scratches out a few catchy phrases on a scrap of paper, disregards all evidence that goes against their idea and does a grand announcement as if its a brilliant new plan.

Ever watch "The Hollowmen"? Wonderful satire based upon the Howard government? Even more applicable to now - such brilliant minds in the ABC's Rob Sitch et al.
So you agree that even the Labor Party has some wisdom then Ben? Unrepresentative swill is a Keatingism as you know (we must ascribe credit to the origins of our comments).

But this is lazy of you. The Senate is often voted according to party lines to represent state interests. Yet Nick Xenophon is a good example of the independence of conscience which can vacillate. Thus we have to see the Senate as representing the safeguard to "keep the bastards honest" (Don Chipp Aus Dems 1978 or so).
I share your idealism Rabbithole. An elected representative, whether State rep or electorate rep, should be enabled to vote according to the interests of those she/he represents in balance with her/his conscience and electoral position. what an interesting senate that would make.
Yet Zing they are elected (in the Reps) according to the policies to which the subscribe. Their pronouncements of beliefs are their platform. They should be consistent with these beliefs and so vote accordingly. Politicians are not automatons that act only according to the whims of their electorates.

The Senate poses greater difficulties as their electorate is the State. They are to represent State interests - but are are still elected according to their policy positions.
I so agree Rabbithole... Perhaps subscribe to an ethical standard of practice as well.Its quite apparent that you're only seeing the Greens on a superficial level. tc21's comment is spot on. Read "scruples" as ethical consideration of the long term greater good of the national interest and the application of tests of integrity on policy decisions.

"I pity your lack of analytical faculties..." but no worries mate... it takes all kinds to comprise a democracy. No vitriol required.Oh dear NOB (its your name by acronym)...

It appears that you don't have a good grasp of ethics. May I suggest you check out the St James Ethics Centre (easy to find on google).

You may have a point on scruples. By definition it is rather subjective yet giving consideration to other points of view than ones own. Morality is somewhat less subjective in that these are normally a construct with some religious base and leans toward the question of "what is right?" rather than the more balanced ethics.

Ethics are a complex school of philosophy. There are some rules involved but remains essentially an argument concerning the rights and wrongs of a given situation. There are many schools of thought which can guide the decision process. But subjective? Definitely no my friend.

I wish you well.You're right in part Troppo... they will  not be missed because they are a force majeur on maintaining some measure of integrity in Aus politics. But you are wrong as to their relevance. On the contrary, they are the most relevant party in the Senate because they are their with integrity trying to ensure that the evils of absolute power are held at bay!
But their influence only brings the right to 35 votes Judy. Their numbers are already countered by the Labor/Greens if they vote together. I don't believe that they will wield much influence.You're right furbies... these are neoliberals by this description (I haven't looked up their policies so I'm uncertain). Given this position, they expect the rich to get richer and thus spend more leading to the mythical "trickle down" economy to prop up the poor by stimulating the economy from above (on high). A false belief but thats democracy."the Coalition could expand its thinking and avoid being captured by a narrow worldview." How excellent a result that might be. It may even approximate the enlightening of party policy experienced by Julia Gillard.

We can dream...

Yet the reality is there will be negotiations and with Mr Abbott there is little hope for compromise. Mr Abetz on the other hand is far more pragmatic and experienced at humility (this is of course relative to Mr Abbott). He has the capacity to bring negotiation into the Liberal camp and effect some modification pressure.

The chances of Ricky Muir remaining with the PUP are looking thin already. He has yet to show his hand on any position and from his previous interviews and last nights analysis is starting far back in the awareness position and may be utterly daunted by the prospect of his new position. I rather doubt his capacity to sustain himself in this rarified air at the dizzy altitude of his power.

Could it become a true free-for-all rumble of vacillating opinion and voting intentions? I fear the (in)capacity of any PUP member for stability. But there are a few stabilising influences. There is Nick Xenophon whose own fierce independence may unite those new Members and bring a new bloc out of the shadow of the PUP.

Its been fascinating reading the posts on this one Lauren... you've certainly inspired an interesting discussion. Excellent piece.

And as an art, opinion pieces are an even more appropriate case in this point. The art of writing can expose many things subtly about a writer. But painting can mask instead of revealing. Especially when the art is popular and made for popular marketing. To my mind art that doesn't reveal the artist is not art but merely a production.

To my mind this wipes out Rolf Harris as an artist from the outset. The same can be said of Ken Done. 

But Mr Harris has been judged guilty of sexual abuse of minors as well as "roman hands and russian fingers" (as my mother used to call gropers). Leaving aside paedophilia, groping was once the norm here in Aus. Then, fortunately, we discovered the rights of the person being groped and we learned respect. Should we judge him harshly for anachronistic cultural attitudes? During the middle ages European women had absolutely no rights at all. Thank humanity, we have all changed. What was right then is wrong now. Its very hard to judge.

But paedophilia has also had times of cultural acceptance. Sadly some cultures still consider it ok to marry a 12 year old girl to a 50 yr old man!

So do we condemn the art of the offender? The purpose of art has been said to challenge one's world view; to shock, amaze and to cause wonder, awe and even fear and hatred. Crikey, so do people!

So Rolf Harris who broke us up with "Jake the Peg" and painted amazingly, hypnotically, captivating scenes - the work doesn't change. If it is art to you, it is art - not the artist.

If its not art, it never was, should never have been bought and so may be trashed without a sense of loss. The cost is the lesson in judging something of value only to find the taint of the artists personality was too much to tolerate.

For myself? Harris is a person who has done many wrong things. He has done many good things too. You can say the same about almost anybody who has lived a life. His work was entertainment: not art - he produced popular works. Yet his personality will linger while his art fades. His flawed personality. His engaging and entertaining personality will be forgotten quickly in revulsion for a "rock spider".

I don't expect he will live long inside - if he makes it that far. The crims hate rock spiders and I doubt he will stand the ignominy!
Excellent points here Dr Rosewarne. Our national psyche has been described ad nauseum as "football mad" - and it is nauseating to consider that some of my compatriots set their alarm clocks by the start of the game. 

I get very concerned when these larrikins, pumped up on testosterone (either naturally or medically) and adrenaline are held to be heroes. The activity of RL, RU or AFL is indeed an entertainment. I do not consider that it remains a sport since it was taken over by Kerry Packer and made into an entertainment phenomenon. And we should have no greater expectation that these men would have any better behaviour than a group of 13-15 yr olds. They do seem to lack judgement.

However, I don't think that we should forgive public displays of hooliganism or obscenity. And it is the outrageous adoration and reward that is heaped upon them which contributes largely to their infantile behaviour. Our adoration, along with the cosseting and boredom of not having to do anything constructive for a living, gives them a sense of entitlement and belief that they can commit many grievous offences with impunity. We ourselves then are the ones who should rightly carry the burden of blame for their misconduct.

I think you are wrong though in saying that we shouldn't care whether they are "nice people or are good people". We have made them heroes to children and their conduct is on display to the most impressionable minds. Although I long to change this, its unlikely that we can ever stop such hero worship. Therefore the heavy burden of being an appropriate role model is incumbent  on them to behave in a manner that does not encourage anti-social behaviour.

They are under the microscope of our own making and they must needs be conscious that their behaviour must show a good character. Politicians are equally in this position. We do care that our politicians are not on the take, that they do not visit brothels or buy drugs/get pissed/rape a teenager on a Saturday night. We don't care too much if the butcher does these things but we do when it comes to our leaders and we do when it comes to our heroes.
Oh crikey Evan... the Greens are damned for wanting a Carbon Price and for negotiating with Julia Gillard to create the plan, then damned for compromising in order to keep the most valuable instruments of managing the shift to renewable energy when the Carbon Price was doomed.

Are you such a nay-sayer that no matter what is achieved you condemn? or are you merely a yes-man for anti-green rhetoric?
John, have you read any information from the Marine Park Authority? It had nothing whatever to do with the "fishing industry", It is a NSW State govt driven exercise to pander to the Shooters and Fishers Party. It was to allow recreational fishers access to the limited coastal marine parks. 

Yet in your lack of information on this you have hit the oxymoronic impact of the marine parks issue on the head. the marine parks were established to protect the nurseries of our fishing industry. The parks are where the fingerlings hatch and develop in a protected environment so that our fishing stocks are not depleted. The fishing industry depends upon the protected nature of the marine park for their very survival.
"that in fact gave us Abbott"????

Your post is incoherent yank. How can your "logic" attribute Mr Abbott's rise to the Greens? Have you been listening/reading? Has your lead and cadmium paint got across the barrier into your brain?

FYI approximately 20% of the nation has been working in a concerted effort to undo much of the Abbott threat with a modicum of success. But I don't need to tell you that. You know all that I'm sure.

And we'll keep working together: all of us who care about Australian society, democracy, freedom of choice and respectful, intelligent debate as well as preventing damage to the Tasmanian wilderness, the Great Barrier Reef, the arrest of destructive mining AND climate change.

Yes, its not a single issue party. Its not even just the Greens Party. Its a lot of Aussies who are working hard to prevent the worst of Mr Abbott's insane excesses from going forward.

Read my main post today for more...
Last nights Lateline went a long way to explaining Mr Gore's presence at the side of Mr Palmer. They both got something they wanted.

One got to keep the important bits of the climate mitigation programme: the other got a means of making himself important enough to make Mr Abbott happy! A dodgy deal but nonetheless helpful for all Australians.

It is proof though that climate change is now back high on the agenda. It may even make the G20 a success after all.
Yes barsnax... a little bit of reason and co-operation by the Libs would go a long way and entirely defuse Mt Palmer's supposed balance of power. 

Mr Abbott speaks somewhat confidently about negotiations with the senate. I doubt that this includes ALP though. He seems too dead-set against any sort of negotiation or diminishing his pet projects such as the PPL. Mr Abbott would need to start by admitting to himself that he doesn't have presidential authority to do whatever he wants. This would be just as difficult for Mr Palmer I think.

Its a good job that the ALP are being reasonable.
There are 3 other new senators commencing next weeks. One from Liberal Democrats, one from Democratic Labour and one Motoring enthusiast. This latter has been co-opted by the PUP, while the LDP and Family First are likely to vote with the Lib/Nats 33 members. This gives us 35 solid votes for the LNP.

The Labor Party has 25, the Greens 10 members, with Nick Xenophon and the DLP making a possible bloc of 37.

Therefore the PUP and Ricky Muir have the balancing 4 votes.

Thus the balance of power may settle on the PUP. But consider the independent Nick Xenophon. And also that Ricky Muir may not always vote with the PUP.

The PUP may not have the influence that has been expressed so loudly. 

Moreover, Mr Palmer has shown that he is quite erratic, vindictive and litigious. His Party members are a bit of an unknown quantity in terms of their characteristics. This may make for a volatile mix with no real guarantees of voting as a bloc. 

This will make for some very interesting manoeuvres by both LNP and Labor, with the Greens no doubt trying to regain some control over Senate voting as well.

I don't think its a given that Mr Palmer will have all this power. There is many a slip between winning and exercising power. We shall wait and see.

I consider that Mr Palmer may find himself without the power circle.
Crikey BJ, you're more cynical than I am!
Damn right Fitz... If the money was being spent on mass transit, I too would support it. But its not! Its going to fund an absurd pipe dream of Mr Abbott's who wants to be remembered as the "Infrastructure Prime Minister"!

This shows clearly how limited is his thinking. He leaves out all other forms of infrastructure. He uses the old local council maxim that "no pot holes means a happy electorate". Mr Abbott is very limited in this thinking.
Ever heard of the Very Fast Train? and that was just one example AE, yet they have the ability to make deals with the States (ever heard this one before?) that forge the direction of infrastructure in all sorts of fields... including rail.

Dugong do you really think there would be such congestion if there were less cars on the roads and more buses? What about if the money were spent on separate bus lanes added on  (quite cheaply) to existing arterial routes? What if they built (cheap) cycleways that separated cyclists from road traffic and provided cycle parks where city workers could safely leave their bikes. Would that help?

We need to transfer our allegiance to cars onto public transport and cycles in order to reduce congestion. We've only been taking about this for 20 years.
Brian as you are no doubt and rightly concerned for your children and grandchildren, you should be supporting the Greens and carbon pricing as well as public transport infrastructure instead of this absurd bit of myopic and foolish roads and potholes PM.

Mr Abbott thinks the trickle down economy works. It has been shown again ad nauseum that it doesn't but instead only makes the rich wealthier and increases the casualisation of our workforce and poverty wages.
Building rail lines creates jobs too. And provides ongoing employment for those who manage and run trains. More employment there than in building a road!
Mr Howard froze the excise indexation as he "stood upon the burning deck" facing electoral defeat. The MSM were conducting a campaign on high petrol prices so Mr Howard saw a great opportunity. 

To freeze an escalating tax may have been popular with voters and consistent with the policy of reducing taxation, but it was one of those things that created Mr Howard's structural deficit - the real cause of our "budget emergency"!

But what is the fuel excise indexation all about? "User pays" says the conservative rip-off rightists. Increasing the tax burden on those least able to manage say I. But it may have benefits beside Mr Abbott's plan to build lots of motorways.

Increasing fuel costs will encourage more car pooling, the purchase of more efficient cars and electric vehicles, more use of push bikes (if they build more cycle lanes too and separate bikes from traffic to make it safer) and motorcycles/scooters. 

But it will in the short term cause more problems as people are encouraged to drive into the city causing more congestion in the medium term. If the use of roads increases it is likely that in ten years there'll be another cry for more motorways and parking in the cities. Thus a self-perpetuating cycle of expensive and destructive reliance on motor vehicles continues.

Mr Abbott's Infrastructure PM ambition is a fool's dream. It is myopic and populist. Don't be suckered by this nonsense. christine Milne was perfectly correct to bounce this absurd legislation.
Mr Abbott showed just how much hubris rules his thinking when he told Mr Obama that absurd line about the fuel excise being a carbon tax. He obviously expected Mr Obama to swallow the nonsense as fact, just as he expects us to swallow all the rest of his lies.
Well said Judy. Damn right. If Mr Abbott had been PM during the GFC he would have gone even harder on austerity. This is evidenced by the fact that he is focussing on austerity for the poor now. 

I remember how Mr Swan was so highly praised by IMF and world financial leaders for managing the GFC so well here in Aus. Although Mr Berg has such criticism of Mr Swan, he is after all tainted with Rightie leanings and so cannot give credit where it is rightly due, Mr Swan did a remarkable job.
Ben climate change becomes a political issue only if one party are arguing that "climate change is crap"! Therefore it is only a political issue for deniers. The rest of the world know better.
You're right that climate change denial becomes a religion. For them it is a matter of ideology and belief. The IPCC is a body of experts who know their stuff. Who do you think bases their beliefs on fact? Scientists.

We need a bit of humility here to accept that we mere non-scientists don't know much at all and that scientists are truly in the know. By their nature and training, they are reticent to make extreme predictions (only a few outrageous predictions ever got talked about in the MSM).

But this is evidence of Mr Abbott's hubris. He cannot accept that smarter people than he exist or that experts know more than he does. Such profound ignorance is what feeds the religious climate change deniers.
"the Coalition didn't win the 2013 election, Labor lost it"...

While I thoroughly concur that Labor lost the election, it was more Tony Abbott's doing that discredited Labor in the eyes of voters. This doesn't give the LNP the mandate they are so fond of crowing about however as they made promises that were broken, lied about so many things and were manipulative. Voters are only just waking up to these facts since the budget.

This brings me to my second point: it is often said that voters aren't stupid. It alarms me how many make this assertion. John Howard proved that he could fool voters in western Sydney very easily. His use of rabble-rousing rhetoric was extremely effective. Mr Abbott was able to use this same strategy with some significant effect. While people may not be stupid they are certainly gullible and liable to accept lies and false promises with an amnesia that is alarming.

Thirdly, Mr Shorten comes across as ineffectual, bland - sleep-inducingly bland! He seems incapable of making connexion with voters. And the Labor Party brand itself is now so removed from appreciation that it is unlikely that Labor will form government in either 2016 or 2019 without some major re-branding and new front team faces and voices.

I doubt that issues truly concern voters in themselves. Many are too easily swayed by rhetoric. This is the big challenge for Labor: to get up a rhetoric that can persuade and lead to a conviction that they can do better for the hip pockets without costing the economy.

To do this I believe they need to re-jig all their policies to capture the Greens vote as well as a large section of the swinging vote. With Mr Shorten heading the line-up I don't believe this can be done. Far better to have a new line-up headed by Tony Burke and/or Tania Plibersek.
You're partly right there aGuy... The Greens have around 8% core voters who believe in a sustainable future. The remainder are voters who are disaffected Labor voters and a few Lib/Nats voters who are rejecting the absurdity of the extent to which conservativism has move away from liberal (small 'l'), such as Malcolm Fraser, toward the new Liberal (dry) extreme rip-off rightist position. 

One could say that Labor is the cause of this because during the Howard years, Labor moved to the right to keep in the scene. This pushed Howard even further right (did you watch or read any analyses during the post Keating years?)

You're also correct about the ALP  i think. They seem to lack courage, especially under the present leadership. But don't rule out the Greens just because of ridiculous rhetoric which attempts to demonise them. 
Chris you make so little of peoples awareness of the danger we face due to climate change and minimise the momentum of change that is occurring. I assume that it is your right wing beliefs that cause you to toe the party line. Otherwise, I recognise your intelligence and I have noted that you have some understanding that climate science results are genuine.

What solutions/amelioration strategies do you support? I would love it if you would do a piece on this.
You're quite right matty... its nationalistic fervour which excludes the "other" from our ranks... it is institutional racism that continues to pervade our right wing politics.
Yes Aaron he did bring his former prejudices with him - but as he suffered from our less obvious racism, he adopted Aus values that he had experienced.

But from our earliest white occupation/invasion we have tried to suppress and exclude all those who look and sound different to us. Our White Australia heritage is not dead - just gone deeper into our collective psyche. It continues to be reflected in the way we treat our aboriginal brothers and sisters, in our attempts to repel refugees (unless they're Christian at least).

Yes, I agree with you that racism is not "just a white only" problem. It is inherent in every society.

Our task is to develop greater acceptance of difference until we have matured (as we were doing under Hawke/Keating) and are truly accepting of all complete with every difference.
They're a Weird Mob, the book/movie of the 60's which portrayed our society from the eyes of italian immigrants, is alive and thriving in our right wing politics.

Hawke and Keating did much to instil a passion for multi-cultural acceptance and even celebration. Then came Mr Howard and we all turned xenophobic. We returned to our natural anti-otherness and adopted our old nationalistic fervour.

We (us white Australian, anglo-europeans) have always been proud of our inclusiveness - but only if you're white! We love to give each other a 'fair-go' unless you happen to be black, yellow or purple with pink spots!

The jokes that went around in the 60-70s leave a bitter taste in my mouth these days. Yet racism continues under the thin guise of Nationalism.

Right wing politics, for all its 'liberal' connotations, is staunch in nationalism. This is an "Us and Them" attitude which excludes anyone who has the temerity to be not of Us. We tolerate they who pretend to be like us... but of course, their colour/accent/verbal nuances betray them and we look down our noses.

Left wing is truly liberal and we should recognise that any nationalism is death to equality and acceptance and inclusion.
Nationalism is not nationalisation of businesses etc... it is inordinate pride in one's nation that considers others from other nations to be inferior... it is dying for the flag, it is what Mr Howard stirred up when he wanted to win his election then sat back of watched the racist riots that happened in south Syd as a consequence.
I quite agree with your observations here. 

Pain management is fraught with regulation and protocols as well as the doctors stringent training in assessment, diagnosis and management plan development. 

Moreover, as you rightly point out, preventive medication or alternative strategies are vital to management. Once there is an onset of pain, other factors come into play, including muscle spasm (the most common cause of pain) and anxiety. This makes remediation more difficult.

We need to address the anxiety many people feel abut opioid use and addiction as a first priority. Opioids are generally quite safe to use s prescribed. 

There is also a difficult belief that medicine can "cure" problems causing chronic pain. Drugs are not a cure but are appropriate symptomatic treatment. Even surgical approaches do not cure but help to reduce symptoms. Once severe traumatic damage is done it cannot yet be undone and a cure effected.
Pain management is a vitally important role of many GPs. Yes I have known some who are lax in their understanding of opioids and their properties, but generally most GPs have a fairly thorough understanding (my background is in Alcohol and Other Drug as a nurse with suitable qualifications and much interaction with GP and specialist services including pain management).

I believe it is unfair to target GPs in this way. They are an under-valued and over-worked service that is an easy target for those who wish to vilify someone for the benefit of their own interest.

I believe the real cause of deficiencies in this field is government regulation, or neglect of same. Opioids are treated with the same disdain as illicit drugs. In other nations diamorphine (heroin) is legally prescribed for pain management with significantly improved effects. The focus on addiction is inappropriate as if a person is expected to remain in pain for the remainder of their life, addiction becomes meaningless. It is only an issue if the person needs to have the drug withdrawn and risk detox symptoms.

Their are also numerous non-opioid treatment systems which are in use by GPs.

Please research the field more broadly before making further attacks on GPs.
Excellent suggestion. Re-Nationalise the post! yes.With a government that seems to have great difficulty identifying the personal impacts of their decisions, it doesn't surprise me that they want to close what is to many an essential service integral to society.

Since Mr Howard made the initial push toward privatisation of postal services, the local PO has been under threat. 

Our local postie has a dedicated team of very community minded people. As Tim Fischer found the local PO is the hub of any rural community. Our PO doesn't make a huge profit - just enough to fund two regular staff and one part-timer. Our postal delivery ladies are on contract and make barely enough to get by on - they are certainly not well-off.

There's no "fat" to trim from this necessary part of our community. Further cuts will no doubt see the closure of many POs.
Mr Abbott wants so badly to be the kind of leader that everyone cheers and adores. He presents us with numerous opportunities to laud him but lacks the awareness to provide any substance.

But his leadership is certainly aimed at, and motivated by corporate interests and, apparently, nothing more. He has yet to show any awareness of the impact of his decisions on real people.

But Peter and Jackie, do be careful with your evident bias. While its perfectly ok to have an opinion, as a research company providing results of surveys there is a distinct skewing of the conclusions and one might suspect push-polling.

This could easily discredit the value of your research.

However, I do note the evenness of the spread of opinion in the last chart. 

Most important is that only 37% of Liberal voters believe the Lib govt is "Handling the economy" well. This is a very worrying figure for the government as it indicates that very few Australians have confidence in their economic management.

Managing the economy is supposed to be the govt's big claim to credibility. If even their own voters/supporters reason that their economic management is deficient, we may soon see more people waking in fright and walking down the main street carrying placards.
Totally agree Hassa... write to all and write often... be a nuisance and harangue this mob for their destructive policies. 
Its incredible that such a divisive government are trying it on with such an absurd resort to nationalistic pride and involvement. 

Another article today by Dr Bird examines the causes of war. The SMH writer reckons its all about religious differences. 

I maintain it is more about the "Us and Them" mentality that comes from the belief that we in our (club, town, state, nation) are right and those who oppose us are wrong and bad. This is pure bigotry and is a suitable case to explain Mr Abbott's nationalism - the very same as Mr Howard practiced.

What a destructive govt we have. But then I might be wrong and ....
great observations GJA.

Interestingly, 37% of people who voted LNP is about 20% of the population (assuming 52% voted LNP). But this points out that 63% of LNP voters think the LNP govt is not managing the economy well.

There remains hope.
Lindsay, Zing and Frangi... Mr Bird has his view and he's well-versed in his profession. Give the guy a break Lindsay and allow him his right to be biased.

I too am biased against religion and so I ask the respect of religious people to allow me my thoughts and beliefs.

How are we to ever end conflict if we cannot be accepting of each others right to be biased.

The subject of religious beliefs and non-beliefs is fraught with passionate advocacy of one's own opinion. The trouble arises when one considers that anyone who disagrees is wrong!

While I hold my own views expect others to disagree with me and enjoy the debate. It is inconclusive as there is no evidence anywhere in the world to prove one view is right and all others are wrong.

Yet it is the argument, when held with bigoted adherence and rejection of others, that causes wars and bitterness.

namaste Mr Bird and my fellow commentators... vive la difference, vive la diversitie.
Absolutely Neil... as an agnostic (I accept that I have no real "knowledge" of "god" because there is no evidence either way but cannot deny your belief as you must have some evidence that you accept as proof to support your beliefs) I have a great desire to help.

Are you seriously offering?

I can supply email if you are...
Take God out of Israel and Palestine and you have two tribes warring over territory. The same as its been for thousands of years.

God is an excuse for many. It is an excuse for "jihadists" as much as it is for right wing fundamentalists. No God has any influence on human affairs and yet God becomes the reason for many to shout "Death to the Infidel"... or anyone else who doesn't agree with me.

This is the same attitude that rules our current government - the arrogance of righteousness. It hails from thousands of years of people saying "there's queer folk over the hill". Those who are not of us are against us.

But how to address this lack of growth of a civilised perception that we are all really the same and that we all have an equal right to hold and to express our own beliefs? How to stop the Israelis from attacking the Palestinians? How to get Russia to recognise and accept the right of Ukraine to maintain its own borders without their interference?

These are very human problems. Evil has nothing to do with it just as God (which does not exist) has nothing to do with any other interpersonal, international or inter-tribal conflict.

I believe we need to stop blaming supernatural forces and concentrate on building human bridges to enable peace between tribes.

It would be nice if the government also learned to accept and consider other points of view than their own too.
Yes Rudd had serious problems - which is why he was dumped. This wasn't a capricious action but Mr Rudd had become untenable as a PM.

Yet the subject here is economic management. And the point Chris makes is focussed on one aspect of economic management only. Taken in context, as discussed by Colin below, Swan saved thousands from becoming unemployed and thus kept our economy moving and sustainable.

Best not to ignore the whole picture AJS but to recognise the total good as well as the perceived singular faults.
Yes... no wonder the banks are making such huge profits... including reverting to unwise and inappropriate lending practices of sub-prime mortgages if the SMH report is accurate.
....... "What goes on in the minds of some people is extremely puzzling." ......

I agree... but human nature is incredibly biased. We believe in something so all that does not fit within our belief can be negated or rejected. That is Mr Howard's belief and our govt is following as faithfully as they can manage.

Bias, ignorance and mental myopia pervade the political landscape.

What an absurd comment WS.

Would you feel better if I said Liberal should never be allowed to govern? You would say I was stupid and you would be right!"The only reason"... what a silly comment.

All political parties have problems. No one party is exempt. Right now we are seeing a most destructive budget. Are you implying that the Libs are truly better than Labor? 

The evidence speaks to the contrary view that all governments and parties include people who rise to positions of authority through bullying, collusion and manipulation rather than through genuine expertise. 

Currently we have a singular extreme example of this argument, while many talented and expert Liberal and National Party members sit on the back bench.

Mr Rudd was another extreme example. And he was sacked by his party because of his dysfunctionality (Crikey, what foolishness to give him a second shot!).

Chris' article takes one scenario from Mr Swan's book and uses this to cast the whole GFC package into some doubt. It does nothing to explain the whole situation. Neither does it do him much good (except that it encourages all the despondent Lib supporters to come out of their shame-holes)
But of course the RBA was focussed on one aspect of economic management while Mr Swan was focussing on employment and business viability.

Both actions worked well in concert and prevented much pain and suffering in the community.

As I've said elsewhere, Chris has taken only one aspect of this scenario. In the broader view, we have to thank Mr Swan and the RBA for preventing a serious catastrophe.
Labor AND LNP have each contributed to the debt... yes Mr Howard paid off the pre-existing debt from the 92 recession - but his little vote-buying tax cuts created the structural deficit that has caused our current "Budget Emergency"!

Would you rather have had mass unemployment as most other nations did post GFC? Would you prefer to have the social disconnection and misery that comes from the full on crash that others had?

I accept Mr Berg's argument here, but it is not the whole story.

..."Labor would always sell the country down the drain" is a meaningless and bigoted comment. 
So what is your message Chris? That the Rudd/Swan stimuli did nothing? That it was all mere squandering of the "Howard legacy" in the name of political popularity?

Dry economic analyses and taking one side against another tells only a small part of the bigger story.

Lets face one other important fact in concert with your expose. If Rudd/Swan had not acted as they did (regardless of whether it was only "political considerations") many people would have been thrust into unemployment - with all the drastic human disconnection and collateral impacts that losing one's job entails.

I very much appreciate your non-partisan approach, but while we may look at this one aspect in isolation, it does little to undo the enormous benefit Australia received through the packages (no I'm not simply referring to the $900 check - of which I received not a cent!)
Would you rather, dear zing, that many thousands would be tossed onto the rubbish heap of unemployment due to the GFC?

Chris here is taking only one aspect of financial management. He over-simplifies at the end to make his own political point. In the bigger picture Swan (less so Rudd) saved our economy from the inevitable crash that was experienced elsewhere around the globe.

Mr Swan's economic credentials remain intact despite this minor opinion.

Now do you consider that the Abbott govt is doing a better job? Their budget is a dog's breakfast of odds and sods... of thought bubbles and bizarre ideas which will harm many thousands in our community. And still they have cash to splash around harassing families travelling to visit relatives or doing genuine humanitarian work which may result in their imprisonment if, on their return to Aus, they cannot prove they were not firing weapons alongside some terrorists.

There seems to be no shortage of money if Mr Abbott wants it to wage war. And this is with a supposed "Budget Emergency"? What a farce.

Try, if you can or dare, to recognise that Mr Swan did some good things too. However, I too am guilty of bias as I can see nothing that the Libs are doing as being beneficial to either our community or our nation.

You may recall that Mr Howard also "rejected" any criticism just as the Abbott govt are now doing. Despite comments from economists and global experts from the IMF to the Aus Business Council to the contrary, they are adamant that their way is the "Only alternative"!

What say to that zing?
Well Labor could certainly gain some brownie points by not doing as the Libs did during the Gillard Govt years and negotiate... but I think they'd much rather see the Libs die of asphyxiation than assist them genuinely.

Their only real option is to negotiate with the Greens!

    .... "only a whisker separates the Lib/Labs"....

I really don't think this line works. The Libs have created a new gulf between the two parties. Mr Abbott is far further to the neoliberal end of the spectrum than Mr Howard ever dared to go. Meanwhile Labor are slowly drifting back to the Centre.
Oh come on Brian... get your head out of the sand and realise this sort of intimidatory talk is the nub of Ms M.'s piece.

The debate on the "budget' may embarrass you, but hey - its the Libs who are pushing an agenda that is socially destructive - its no wonder they can't get these essential (to them) measures through.

This attack on Medicare and universities etc is an indicator that they are really struggling and they need a victory here to validate their government priorities.

    ...."it will not generate thoughtful responses."... i think is your wish here but is not based in reality.
.... "The Abbott Government will take little or no notice of the commentary" ...

This is the truly unfortunate truth Brian. Mr Abbott and his colleagues certainly do have their ears and their minds closed and so any kind of negotiation or indeed even consultation with stakeholders seems anathema the them. Their arrogance is exceeded only by their ignorance of the needs and thoughts of others.

Is this what you meant by the budget debate "not generat(ing) any thoughtful responses"? Did you mean no thoughtful responses from the govt? Yes I agree with you. They don't appear to give any real thought to any complaint or suggestion. Their way is the only path to choose.

As for the memory of lies, lies and more bloomin lies... certainly the Abbott govt is teaching us that no other govt in history has taught this lesson so well.
Brian

Your repetition will not change the reality. Many thoughtful responses in this forum, including yours. Just please do not denigrate our fellows by suggesting that we who also comment do so without due thought.

You insult us all with this absurd claim Brian. It is offensive.
No-one is suggesting do nothing Zaphod. But the govt needs to recognise reality. Their Bills are just unacceptable!

They need (thats a highly emphasised NEED) to go back and work out new ways to achieve their ends.

Or better still, to honestly sit down with perhaps a committee from the Senate and work out how to negotiate (not their strongest suit) amendments that will pass muster.

I suggest they negotiate with the Greens!
I quite agree Olive... Worst govt in Aus Hx is spot on.

What's more is they haven't the faintest idea as to how to "negotiate". Far from being "orderly and methodical" or some such reassurance of their intellectual incomparability they flounder like a mob of school children out to demonstrate just how righteous they are in the face of a laughing crowd of knockers.

If they are serious or sensible, they must realise that their plans are unacceptable and go back to the planning room and nut out some better thought-bubbles.
......"Christopher Pyne's threat to reduce research funding if budget measures are not passed."......

Such a childishly-posed, spiteful threat!
"Orderly and methodical", the LNP catch-phrase, is made such a farce when such belligerence and intimidation becomes the currency of negotiation.

Of course Mssrs Pyne and Corrman are merely threatening (are they?). Their bluff and bluster is certainly reminiscent of a twelve year old who is used to getting his own way "promising" to have a tantrum.

I won't mention this absurd phrase after this, I promise, but... so much for the "Adults" being charge.

Yes Paula, this disgusting troop of noisy, rambunctious, pugnacious and belligerent little monkeys needs to accept that they will have to let go of some of their "reforms" in order to get these last Bills passed in the Senate. Although, rather than negotiate with Labor, I believe they would have far greater likelihood of success if they were to negotiate with the Greens!

Now amid all the outcries, guffaws and wails of remonstrance from the commentariat gallery, I know many will condemn this thought as farcical too. But bear with me for a moment good people.

While the government is struggling so badly, the Labor Party are less likely to bend in any way, preferring to see the LNP squirm, and the PUPs are not to be relied upon: - the Greens are the LNP's best option.

Yes the Government must accept their destructive plans will not be acceptable, but the Greens can help them develop better policy that will be more acceptable to the Aus community.

I recognise this suggestion will be abhorrent to the Lib supporters. But what is their alternative? More bullying, intimidation and absurd blame on everyone except accepting the responsibility themselves?
While this government has every right to attempt to get such Bills passed and enacted, they are hiding from the real cause of the so-called "Budget Crisis"

Certainly there are many contributing factors, not least of which is the debt that was necessary to see our nation through the greatest threat to our economy since the Great Depression - a recession which trashed many nations around the world.

But more importantly, the Howard govt, under the impression that the mining boom would continue unabated for at least a decade, reduced taxes to the wealthy and added many nice little loopholes and concessions.

This caused the structural deficit that was worsened by Mr Rudd's attempt to balance the tax cuts by raising the tax-free threshold in his attempt to make the tax cuts more equitable.

The threat to raise taxes is indeed a sensible one. Yet I cannot accept that Liberal tax rises would take the form of reversing Mr Rudd's tax-free threshold change rather than to sensibly address the problem of the wealthy paying too little tax.
Yes Estaban... you're right that Mr Rudd enacted the last of Mr Howard's tax cuts. He could barely do otherwise in his view. 

My view is he should never have done that but no-one could at that time foresee the end of the mining boom (except us Greenies who knew the globe would soon change as it is now to renewable energy systems).

Thanks for your interesting and informative description of structural deficit mechanics. Your description however didn't include all the nice little perks for the wealthy by means of incentives, loopholes and special considerations. These too contribute to the structural deficit.

Every pollie is afraid to remove tax cuts and generous conditions once they've been granted. Too electorally difficult. Yet this is what Mr Abbott should be concentrating on in my view. But of course he wouldn't do that.Of course the wealthy feel they are the sole support of the nation given that their tax rate is higher and the sum amount is higher. However this absurd argument is not about actual % or sum, but the impact that tax makes on disposable income.

As I rather confusedly tried to discuss before, a person on $500/wk paying $100 tax loses 20% of the income while one on $5000/wk paying $500 tax pays 10%. I know that figures and tax rates are totally inaccurate but you get the point?

And yes Rudd felt the need to assure voters that Mr Howard's economic management approach would be continued. This was one his many unfortunate blunders. And you are again right that no-one was really aware of the structural deficit that had been created when the budget had to be tightened due to the GFC expenses and we returned to a more normal state of lower incomes from mining companies.

I appreciate our discussion Estaban. You remind me of much that I had forgotten. Cheers mate
yes the underlying strategy is evident alright. The govt is playing ideological and manipulative games.

A very dodgy mob.
I consider that their obvious support for the wealthy at the severe cost to those who don't own shares in huge corporations is destructive to our society as well as the economy.

The economy is made up of people. A political economy is much more than mere dollars and normative v. positive economic principles. And support for wages and stimulus for jobs growth is desperately lacking.

As Mr Abbott said, the government is not there to provide jobs. "One job disappears... and another job appears"... its magic mate!

This is a govt that has a completely hands-off approach to the economy and hence the budget. I'm surprised they didn't out-source it to Gina Rinehart.
I really don't believe they understand their own arguments. They haven't thought them through or considered the consequences of their actions.

I thought their election strategy was "small target" and hence their reluctance to discuss their policies in any meaningful way. But I now think they have no real understanding of how to do what they want to achieve.

To my thinking, they seem to want to destroy the economy.

As for the "Budget Emergency" and "debt and deficit crisis", it was interesting that Mr Hockey's first action was to increase our national debt. Doubling our debt while making such claims makes no sense whatever. They have made no real effort to explain this.
Don't forget the F-35 Joint Strike Fighters... a massive load of fun for these boys to have their photos with them sitting in their phallic sublimations. And the perfect reason to double the national debt as soon as Hockey got into the Treasury Office.

Their legacy will leave generations to come to shake their heads in wonder at the appalling mismanagement and injustice of this mob!..."They must believe the policy is justified by evidence, but they must also agree it is justified in the moral sense..."

However, as Mr Hockey clearly demonstrated, it does depend upon the evidence "selected" to support one's argument.

To be fair, one cannot be aware of, let alone use, all data available. However to ignore the vitally important proportion of disposable income when paying tax or levies is to ignore very important data.

Yes all governments select which data they will use, select various perspectives, such as normative and positive measures of economic costs and benefits, and so no economic plan will ever please everyone.

But To take the "GP co-payment", which is a misnomer as it will have much more effects via prescriptions (PBS) and hospital services, as an example.

The (?)normative argument would state that the $7 is going to create an cornucopia from which medical research can draw. It is ethical to create such a fund. Yet the impact has been minimised by the government through their focus on GP visits. 

This is a severe impact on those who have chronic illness which does not qualify them for a treatment plan. But the impact on my family with 5 prescriptions per month is $35 every month.

A person who suffers a stroke will suddenly be thrust into an economic morass which may add up to a very large amount at a time when their income has stopped through illness. Every Medicare supported service such as x-ray, CT and MRI scans, blood tests (often several times a day in the acute care phase), physiotherapy, doctors visits etc will each attract a $7 charge.

Yet a person with no chronic illness, on no medication, will pay nothing!

I don't accept that the government has considered the data on the impacts of the budget. They have each contributed some thought-bubble ideas without sufficient consideration of the consequences.

Ms Montaigne, I must ask you as an expert in the field: - do you consider the budget to be sound? You have not addressed your opinion on this and I would love to read yet another economists considerations.Well said Andrew Thomas.This is divide and conquer politics me old china. I invite you to join with the real Team Aus that includes muslims and chinese as integral in our natural multi-cultural society. 

We do not reject anyone or try to find "goodies and baddies". We all live here and thats enough to make us a nation. We all have the right to our own beliefs and attitudes. This is democracy.

Mr Abbott believes some of us are Australian and others are ... others.

The unemployed are the detritus according to Mr Abbott, are "leaners ("Baddies"). I no longer have a job at 58 because of WorkChoices. I cannot find another job which "appears" as MR Abbott predicted.

Don't swallow the propaganda china. 
The IS has little to do with Islam Rinaldo.Yet the government's budgetary strategy is aimed at widening the gap between those with masses of money and those who live hand-to-mouth.

Just take for example the relative difference in the so-called "GP co-payment". If you do not have any illness, injury or other need for medical care, you won't pay a cent. 

If you have one or more chronic illnesses, such as hypertension, diabetes, depression, or are on prescription medication for any other reason, you will pay $7 for each prescription. This is $35/month for my wife an I. 

Furthermore, if you suffer a stroke, for example, you will be thrust into a financial black hole at the time when your income is as disabled as you are. You will be charged $7 for each and every Medicare supported service throughout your hospitalisation. X-rays, CT and MRI scans, medications, blood tests, physiotherapy and each doctors visit will cost an additional $7.

Not a big price $7... but add up an admission for a stroke and you may be looking at $700 per week!

Relatively speaking, this is totally unjust and disproportionately impacts on those with illness. Is this answered by "normative" or "positive" economics. Either way it has a thoroughly negative outcome.

Sure the Medical research fund is a good idea (although it should include all scientific research and not merely the popular medical research), but why should it be funded in such a "user pays" model?
This is very basic journalism. You certainly can't be accused of bias here Jonathan. No opinion: only facts. No background commentary. All taken from the most recent data with no historically drawn trends.

This is the State of the Nation!

We will all pick our favourite stat from this list to reckon on your meaning. It is abstract art. Superb work. Minimalist.

What concerns me most is that in a democracy 3 million people voted informally with 620,000 probably because they didn't have a clue as to how they might vote. 

so where in all this is Mr Abbott's mandate to bring increasing poverty? If the Liberal Party were not in a coalition with the Nats, they would never see the Government Offices.

Yet they strut like peacocks (only one pea-hen!) and claim their right to rule. They are the most self-righteous mob and yet their policies and attitude is utterly divisive.

The "GP co-payment" will hit the people with the most serious illnesses the hardest. My wife and I are only on 5 medications between us. We will pay $35 every month for our medication. A person who neglects their ill-health will pay nothing.

The Muslim leaders who have boycotted the PMs meeting this morning are labelled as "foolish" and "petty". The PM condemns Mr Palmer's tirade and yet commits extremely offensive remarks against his own people.

If this man is "Captain" of "Team Australia" I for one do not want to join. 5th generation Aus; middle income(?) WASP background I am so offended by Mr Abbott's ignorance, lies, deceit and plain stupidity and offensiveness that I cannot wait for the next election.
I agree Chrism. One cannot generalise North Korea or any other nation. This is an ethical dilemma with many permutations and convolutions, facets and interests.

Your point on the extraction of rare earth minerals is certainly valid and the higher good argument certainly applies in this context.
While I heartily agree with your argument Michael, we must remember that we also have major trade with China despite human rights atrocities in Tibet and south-west China, the Israelis despite their horrendous human rights abuses against Palestine and even America has issues as seen lately.

We too have committed horrendous human rights violations. These are more marked in recent months. Our aboriginal people have complained to the UN about the Intervention and other matters of profound neglect as well as our preference for imprisoning aboriginal people.

We are no innocents. Yet the case has been strongly made that trade engages other nations and so opens the opportunity to help such nations moderate. A very long slow process but nevertheless the argument remains sound.

Ethical dilemmas such as this are fraught with difficulties.

Consequently I do not hold a firm view on this matter, although it is frequently on my mind. Your case is good and sound Michael but needs to find more balance.
touche... ouch... well said
The Greens are demonstrating the sam discretion as the Labor Party... and rightly so.

It is utterly foolish to make of this a bigger show than it is. 

This is a lesser faux pas that Mr Abbott's comments on Scottish independence or Ms Bishop's selective diplomacy completely ignoring Israeli atrocities or IS atrocities.

The Greens are right to be silent... It is a non-story of a foolish and greedy man having a tirade against his upcoming trials.
We need an alternative to a DD. There is falling confidence in the Govt as discussed yesterday by Lewis and Woods. If this trend continues we may be facing the most serious Constitutional Crisis since Whitlam/Fraser/Kerr.

Yet we have no recourse. We must therefore get out on the streets and call for the resignation of the government.

We must call for it loudly and often and in large numbers sufficient to force the government to hear.

All you good people who realise the dangers posed by this budget are needed to express your opinion loudly to all community members.

Dare I say it or will the "moderators" of the forum block me for saying March in August this weekend.
very fair point Zing... but not a hit I'm afraid.

I agree with your summation though :-)
I quite agree with you Brian. Mr Palmer, I think, has two motives;

1. he is developing pupular (intended spelling)  opinions in order to garner more support, and

2. he is rebelling against the pressure applied by the Libs and especially Mr Hockey.

His anger over-rides any good sense he may have, even business sense.

But he is not the real issue here.

The budget is the real problem. With all the essential Bills passed there remain these keystone items for Lib budget savings and revenue.

Yet it is Mr Palmer's tirade that has captured attention and provided a pulpit from which his detractors can perch and fling faecal matter in his general direction hoping some of it will stick.

Mr Palmer's indiscretion and faux pas was nothing compared the absurd comments by Mr Abbott on the subject of Scottish independence.
And is Peter Cosgrove likely to do that? Ms Bryce may have done but she was replaced fairly quickly with one of Little Johnny's old mates. It truly is a wonder it wasn't Major Brian Watters (ret)!

No Mr Cosgrove is a military man and they take their oath of allegiance to the Australian Government and Crown more seriously than they are concerned for the Aus people. We really don't matter in their realm.
good lateral thinking prison... but a bit too unrealistic for a conspiracy to hit home.

But I agree the Abbott govt will make as much a meal of this as they can to distract from their own recent failings, including Mr Abbott's absurd comments on Scottish independence.

May I suggest you try Opera as a browser. It works for me where no other has done for some months.
Mr Corrman's interview on Lateline yielded nothing of note. It will not change Mr Palmer's position: - he will assuredly remain as stubborn as ever.

Rather than the Budget being a "half-dead mouse" after its battering, the Budget is a dud from its beginning. It is a dog breakfast of odds and sods with little consideration of the consequences. 

It has been made up of disjointed thought-bubbles with no coherency, little reasoning, no sense of community or commonwealth, no justice or fairness (although I am truly fed-up with that absurd notion - nothing is ever fair). 

It is utterly biased and blames the victims of trickle-down economics for not diving into the massive well of wealth that has trickled down from on high and in which we all wallow had we the wit to know it.

Paula you started with Mr Palmer's absurd and damaging personal tirade and ended with the budget and its last true defender. Where are you meaning to place the central message of this piece?

If its Mr Palmer - yes he's an over-reactive fallible human who made a lesser faux pas than either Mr Abbott or Mr Palmer in recent months.

If its the embattled Mr Hockey he has earned no sympathy - you're right.

If its the budget, read my first few paragraphs.

If its Mr Corrman - an automaton who regurgitates policy like a recorder with no emotive connexion or awareness of the connotations of such a cruel budget he cannot be believed.
There is a further point to this debate.

Mr Palmer had earlier in QandA stated the reasons for rejecting the budget measures. The Libs certainly wouldn't want these debated so the attack on Mr Palmer's tirade helps them to cover up the Palmer criticisms.
I admire your style kas... I must argue that Mr Palmer has made some very interesting comments in support of the "ordinary Aus..." I doubt his commitment. 

However may he stick it to the govt and bounce his boogie down the Lower House steps for the betterment at least of Mr Abbott's Bills.Sorry Anne but this isn't a wrestling match. I cannot accept the idea that either Jones or QandA would agree to any sort of set-up. 

I also think Mr Palmer's outburst was from genuine feelings and not contrived. An over-reaction perhaps, insulting certainly, but contrived? no, I don't think so.

It would be a pity for you to close yourself off from the debate over this though...I agree that Mr Palmer is almost naked with his own personal beliefs and his reactions are often genuine.

Your contrast paints the man kindly.

While Mr Palmer will never be in the league of Don Chipp - he's the best we have hey.

nice post rabbieA definition of madness is continually repeating the same behaviour expecting a different result. Mandatory sentences keep getting tried and never produce a result to more people in prison and coming out more dysfunctional than they were when they were locked up!

We need to address the cause of the problem rather than the consequences.

Treat alcohol the same as tobacco would be a good start. Charge publicans for continuing to supply large amounts of alcohol to people who are already intoxicated. Limit the sale of alcohol and close all venues earlier so that people are encouraged to go home.

A public health programme educating young people to the effects and problems with alcohol to reduce the likelihood of such severe intoxication.

In this context, the perpetrator can be seen as a victim of an unregulated alcohol industry.
I read your comments Zing with the intention of finding the good awareness in you and in this you are quite right. 

There are always individual differences, and as you rightly point out "A reasonable person would be aware by now that punching someone could lead to death or grievous injury."

Obviously, with people who are intoxicated, we are not dealing with reasonable people but with those with extremely limited ability to reason.

If we are ever to address this problem we need to look at the causes.
But... Not everyone does so under the same circumstances. Judicial discretion is there to allow for differences which is right and just.

If we want to comprehensively deal with the issue we need to address the causes of violence rather than target individuals (see my post below for this argument - I won't bore you by repetition)....."Offenders have offered up excuses such as being drunk, or that the punch was "out of character"...

Quite right al... alcohol disinhibits, or removes one's ability to reason and make valid judgements. Therefore the supposed deterrent effect, which is not able to be recognised by someone who is drunk, is totally negated.

We need to address the causes of violence. Mandatory sentences will only make people who are sentenced come out of prison angry, more dysfunctional than ever before and with a much greater likelihood of re-offending.
Spot on awake... prevention is always more effective, cheaper and better for people than attempting to "cure" a problem. We have to address the causes of such violence and see the perpetrator of such violence as being affected by such causes.

If there was true justice on this issue, judges should be able to charge the publican who allowed the perpetrator to become so intoxicated.
Well said Judy Bee... 

and this is the mark of a dying Liberal govt in Vic. Desperate times call for desperate measures they say. Yet it is myopic and ignorant to remove judicial discretion.
A most excellent analysis Mr Berg... very informative.

Of course the premise that underlies mandatory sentencing makes two assumptions:

1. that judges are NOT fully cognisant or able to assess a case adequately and so commit judgements which are insufficient to reflect the wishes of the political beliefs in punishment.
2. that the message of serious terms of imprisonment will act as a deterrent to potential offenders.

The first assumption is obviously fallacious. Judges are appointed because of their knowledge of the law and their ability to analyse circumstances and commit according to the circumstances. To remove or restrict their judgement undermines the credibility of the judiciary.

Now, the second is more important in my view. The assumption of deterrence is illusory. 

Try telling a young feller out on the town, full of frustration and rage due to their developmental difficulties, fuelled by testosterone, which causes all male animals of this young adult stage to be more aggressive than any other stage of life, and disinhibited by alcohol - noted for decades as a major contributor to all forms of violence.

Hence, with the first two factors affecting all young men to a greater or marginally lesser impact, the last becomes the matter to address. Once a person is intoxicated their is no awareness of deterrence. Therefore deterrence is NOT effective!

If we are to manage Saturday night violence (a more valid issue than "one-punch" violence) we need to address alcohol sales and abuse.

It is important to not prohibit alcohol, or to restrict alcohol sales to unacceptable levels/times. In the 60's pubs were open only a few hours in the evening so men would gulp down huge quantities of alcohol in a short period causing more severe problems that we currently see.

Yet restrictions must take place. Trusting pubs and clubs to monitor or manage people's alcohol consumption is absurd. The Newcastle experience showed a significant reduction in violence. I am waiting to see how this same practice extends to Sydney.

But my point is that alcohol is the root of the problem. Thus we are blaming the victims of the alcohol industry.

If we were to treat alcohol in the same manner as tobacco would be a great start.
I forgot to add an important point to my argument regarding the targeting of drunken violence.

This legislation targets only violence perpetrated in public. 

Much more serious violence is perpetrated against women and children in the home than is committed publicly. So Why are they targeting public violence and ignoring domestic violence?

This is mere vote-winning propaganda. This will do nothing to reduce violence but will do what all "tough" laws do: win votes from people who only read the media and are unaware of the true nature of the problems around violence.

Women and children need more protection than do drunken revellers on Saturday night. women and children are murdered by drunken perpetrators. The incidence is far higher. This is a far more pressing problem.

Addressing alcohol promotion would help here too.
But these are not "normal" people. Like me they have remarkably aberrant patterns of behaviour. Yet these are "the Adults now in charge" behaving as spoiled teenage brats. They are stuck in Opposition mode, continuing to blame every catastrophe they cause on the Gillard Govt. This is bizarre and not supported by evidence.

Salesmanship usually got Mr Howard through his normal trials. If that didn't work he either bought votes through pork-barrelling or conjured up an asylum seeker crisis. Mr Abbott has done himself such a disservice by "Stop(ping) The Boats".
Harry, you don't seem to know how much damage you do to your image by such a feral response. Calm down mate and look at this objectively.Excellent summation WGT... Labor dysfunction and Liberal rhetoric certainly killed Labor...

I think people are seeing just how more dysfunctional a government can be with Mr Abbott and Co. Some people cannot help committing suicide. 

They honestly do not seem to be aware of their own failures or errors of judgement.
Well said MK... the Liberal narrative throughout has always painted any problems as being due to Labor mismanagement. Labor too can be caught using this point so its not simply a Liberal fault.

Yet the story, from my perspective, here is about an impending crisis in confidence. Liberal voters are beginning to see what the rest of us saw pre-election: the Abbott govt are more dysfunctional and worse economic managers than the preceding Labor govts. 
The belief you cite above, dear Lewis and Woods, certainly has had some validity. However this has arisen more from the disastrous Whitlam experience than from any other governance.

And like any other experience of a one-off, it should never be applied as a generalisation. Neither should the idea that Liberal are the better economic managers. Mr Howard only balanced the books because of the massive economic boost courtesy of Big Mine taxes. We won't see that again. 

Yet the only generalisation that I uphold is that one should never generalise. Mr Abbott's government is not one to generalise from certainly. They are an aberrant from the mean. 

But what I find most significant from your data is that 15% of people who intend to vote Liberal think that the Abbott govt is doing a bad job of managing the employment. What is even more startling is that only 46% think they are doing a good job.

Less than half Liberal voters believe the Abbott govt is doing right for employment. With only 39% of voters surveyed believing the govt is on the "right track"!

These figures certainly don't tell the whole story of course, but one may equally well surmise that there is a clear lack of confidence in the Abbott Govt. Equally stunning is the number of people who fear they or an immediate family member will lose their job within the next 12 months!!

I would like to see the change in numbers/percentage of people intending to vote LNP today. I expect the numbers to be falling dramatically as the arrogance, ignorance, social harms and threatened difficulties posed by the govt stand out and overcome any perception of good arising from individual exercises of statesmanship.

If these numbers keep falling, we may see a crisis of confidence in the government. This forum will soon need to address potential means of dealing with such a dysfunctional government. Presently it appears we have only one form of redress by calling for a double dissolution. The government is unlikely to support or act on this call.

The Whitlam govt caused their own destruction through the Kemlani affair. Mssrs Abbott and Hockey may not be at such an extreme... but time will tell.
While I commend Ms Bishop on her dogged determination to get Aus military involved in the Ukraine, she has not been active at all in the other more important matter of Israeli attacks on Gaza. On this she has been silently ignoring the suffering of thousands.

Yet her grit and labours are a matter of character rather than diligence. I wonder how she will fare with future foreign affairs matters.

But does this qualify her as the best Liberal to sell the budget? What of her economic acumen? While all the rest of the Liberal front bench have shown a decided lack of sales proficiency she may outclass the rest - but that would not be difficult.
No Eliza... this person has only two neurones each doing semaphore across a vast emptiness. 

Ms Parker professed that the "Best way to manage koala populations" was to deforest woodlands peripheral to their population groups. She believes in the creation of koala ghettos!

No, she may have repaid a small donation, but that doesn't make her leadership material.
Its not about "how much money can be made" Zing. The uptake of domestic solar and wind energy goes on regardless of personal profits. It is all about preventing AGW catastrophe and aiding in a sensible move to real clean energy.There is an uptake of solar panels despite State and Federal policies to discourage such. Even Australia Post has covered its roof to gather the new high-tech energy.

There are Some energy Co.s that are focussing on renewable energy too...  flock to Diamond and Momentum energy guys and support renewable energy. 

There is even a trial here in NSW to establish a local village solar scheme. Meanwhile the community groundswell of domestic solar and wind energy continues despite State threats to charge PVA owners for the right to supply energy to the grid.

Our nation is changing despite government disincentives. What is more concerning is the point of this article. The influence of major corporate lobbyists. 

We need a National ICAC to investigate this inappropriate "power" grab by the power Co's.You must be unaware that in NSW Mr O'Farrell when he came into Office reduced the feed-in tariff for a short term then cut it out altogether .Even though I qualify for 28c/Kw/hr energy production, I can not get it. People connecting PVAs now get only the 4-10 cents, as I do. 

Hence there is no means of recouping your panel and installation costs. It is expensive to put on panels. Therefore there is a disincentive.

Yet, thanks to Mr O'Farrell, those who do run PVAs do so because they are concerned about our future.

In Qld there are reports that the government is supporting a push by energy Co.s to charge PVA owners for the privilege of contributing electricity to the grid!

But renewable energy is the future of energy production Bull. It won't be long and there won't be an international market for coal and CSG.

We need to "throw money" at the research and development of solar, wind and wave energy production. Its already competitive and will soon outstrip coal for cost very soon. But Mr Abbott has reduced funding to the CSIRO and so there is a strong push to make it difficult for solar/wind etc to improve.
Roger, I appreciate your interesting comments. Don't worry about following the money too rigorously as it seems your Scientific Method is neglecting the evidence.

Indeed there is evidence in your comment that you are very selective in the science you like to follow. its certainly not physics or meteorology.

The "cheapest form of energy" is renewable energy. It doesn't have much impact on our environment and no CO2 emissions. Whereas the coal mines and CSG extraction leave utterly massive environmental costs and the companies don't like to pay for clean-ups so it is likely the taxpayer will bear the cost of repairing old mines.

As for CSG, the impact on subterranean aquifers and arable farmlands is projected to be enormous. With tailing dams overflowing and noxious chemical salts contaminating both land and aquifers, the clean-up will be massive.

And once they start to export gas they will be charging us all, as they have been warning, much more for their gas!

I'm considering going back to the camp fire to do my cooking and bathing in the creek instead of heating water for a shower! Carbon energy is costing us too dearly.
Are you certain of that "fact" Roger? methinks you have a vivid imagination with little reference to evidence.China and India, our largest coal buyers, are rapidly converting to solar. It was reported recently that China had installed more solar installations in the one year more than Australia had EvER installed!

It won't be long before our market for coal has gone and we will be left as the dirtiest and most retrograde nation governed by wilful ignorance of the dangers of global warming.

What we have left is numerous ulcers on the face of our nation and septicaemia from fracked aquifers along with the worst salinity in our bread baskets.

For the benefit of huge profits for unscrupulous energy companies we ill be left a wreck of a country (we may also have mud in our eyes but for the drought that will come).

Just another example of the incompetence and bias of the Abbott Government.
It is interesting to note (salutary even) that while energy prices are regulated, there is not much between the power Co.s. Except the Daily Access Charge!

The Poles and Wires infrastructure expenditure over the last couple of years has allowed a marked increase in a highly profitable charge which is unregulated!

Western Australia currently has only one power Co and it is State owned. A word of warning to WA - DO NOT PRIVATISE YOUR POWER CO.s! it will lead to far higher prices and profiteering by corporate cowboys.
"Being seen as a coward and a weakling diminishes the PM..." is back to front in my view. His reported discussions with Mr Putin raise my opinion of him while his absurd threat the "shirtfront" was so stupid and the most abject evidence of Mr Abbott's lack of diplomatic acumen.

Ms Mathewson goes on to extend this to the government's plan to deal with their self-imposed fiscal difficulties. The G20 was used by the PM as his grandstand announcement concerning his need to get his agenda and Bills through Parliament. He announced his principles for achieving what he sees as the necessary changes to our economy and his vision (at last) of our future with economic growth being the driver for social equity.

Never mind that I disagree with his fundamentals. He has finally done what should have been explained during the election and in the lead-up to the budget. Had he done this he may have had greater success with his Budget Bills.

Good job then that he is so inept a manager and planner. His approach to all things is ill-considered, rash and reflexive. His attack on Mr Putin was pure adolescent pugilistic bravado, like some fool goading his opponent... just like his Opposition to Julia Gillard actually.
The growth of technological advances - the use of robots and other sophisticated software driven applications in manufacturing and services - has profound profit implications for businesses and adversely for employment. 

The G20 group should be addressing this as more many millions of employees are thrown onto the scrapheap and left to rot with minimal or non-existent social supports like Newstart.

Unemployment will become the single biggest issue in the next decade and unless more labour-intensive industries arise will eclipse global climate change as the biggest threat to our survival/sustainability.

Pathetic is hardly the word I think. 

True he's been caught out with the predictable quantity of mud on his face - it was a high probability from the outset given his pugilistic manner and history of aggression. 

But the implications of such verbalisation and actions (clearly their private meeting included some aggressive words on both sides) show our Mr Abbott to be an abject fool.

I cannot understand how so many of his supporters cannot see this man for what he is - incompetent and dangerous to our society, nation and international relations.
GRF isn't it time you had a good hard look at the facts? Abbott/Hockey policies are causing businesses to close and jobs to be lost with an apathy that can only come from ignorance.

They keep on blaming the former Labor govts as if they could absolve themselves of all responsibility by pointing the finger - its time they started accepting their own responsibility.

Mr Abbott's words concerning Mr Putin were rash, ill-considered, aggressive rather than diplomatic. He could have achieved so much more had he used the tactics he employed during the election of saying as little as possible.
The PM presents a good front ok... make all the right noises depending on to whom he is speaking. It is duplicitous to say one thing to one audience and quite another, opposing speech to a different audience.

I suppose they have the aristocratic idea that they are in power therefore they can make the law to be whatever they desire for their own outcomes.

The old falsity that "the end justifies the means" comes to mind - I maintain that the means must be appropriate to the context, must not cause harm, must be seen to lead to the end result and must be founded upon and be consistent with the community standards.

It is no good committing atrocities to achieve anything. One must live and work within a firm ethical framework. Else the end will be scarred from trauma and ignominy.
The Liberal Govt has already inquired into the past Labor Govts actions. Therefore your argument is overturned. The precedent is established by the Abbott Govt's vindictive witch hunt in their attempt to discredit Labor further.

If the Qld govt has committed offences it should be uncovered. I'm not so aware of Qld these days so I have no real firm opinion as to their actions. However if others with considerable awareness thing there are questions to be answered, then they have a right to call for such an enquiry.
Every government that comes into Office accuses the previous government of mismanagement. Mr Howard's budgetary lies were discovered when Labor won in 2007 and there was much talk of how Mr Howard created the structural deficit with his tax cuts to the wealthy during the mining boom.

Every budget needs to balance expenditure with revenue. It makes more sense to reverse Mr Howard's tax cuts than it does to create a "Budget Emergency/Crisis" than to cut funding to health education and the ABC. 

Mr Abbott made a categorical and explicit promise that there would be no cuts to ABC/SBS. This is yet another broken promise. It seems clearly that Mr Abbott and the Liberal government are dishonest - Liars who say one thing before an election and do the complete opposite once elected.


