The actual root cause is found from his nationality.

He was Iranian.

An aspect but not the whole story (so no shrill black and white thinkers need reply) is Iran approached the US to end sanctions and Bush/Cheney knocked them back in a political point scoring move.

To some extent the US is complicit. We fall in line lockstep with the US so in some small way, we are party to it.

You get that though, a man is not an island.

So, moral of the story, when quoting root causes you actually to need to go back to the root cause. The people smuggler is a few links down the chain.
Don't you know 'most' carries with it the numerical value of 7%?Abbott heads a government that is far right and very authoritarian.

I am centre left and somewhat libertarian.

Abbotts handling of the plane as an issue that for me, will disappear in a week. In fact, this plane issue has never captured me. Yes people have died and yes some of them are Australians as if that makes any difference. However, its just another war atrocity in an very, very long list.

Bleating about goodies and baddies is meaningless. Something with meaning would be to do something about war.

So to Abbott, whatever he has or has not done over this plane makes scant difference to how I view him. I realize this is an article from a liberal party faithful so positive spin abounds.

The fact remains thought, for me, his politics and social control are far too extreme. For me, reinvention would occur should he pull back from this political and social extreme to something remotely central.
Peter,
Obviously struck a nerve.
Anyway, you are almost there. 'People who died are my countrymen so by extension my family'.

The  greater body of knowledge has it that as one grows up one more identifies with others. So we start in nappies as the centre of the universe and by the time we die we are supposed to have developed to the point where we see ourselves as part a unified whole.

Unified whole means no such thing as tribalism which means a countries borders or the colour of skin have no meaning what so ever.

I have to admit I am not ready to completely dissolve the idea of country but I am not that far off. Hopefully I will get there in the remaining few decades I have left.

If that makes you sick and me disgusting then so be it.
Peter community is everyone. All 7 billion of us.

The paradox only exists because of your divided view of community.

That said, I know some people on the real left who are quite nationalistic.

It seems not everyone can be neatly pigeon holed or painted with the same brush but if such a binary views helps you understand your world then all power to you.The long answer is read Chomsky or Ghandi (Mohandas). They are/were both centre left libertarians.

Since my guess is you do not have time for that, try politicalcompass.org. They attempt it in a paragraph or so.

Also unified whole refers to relationship with people. 
It means I am pretty much the same as you. 
In reality, that is true. We are, unless you are severely deformed,  likely to be about 99.8% the same in a biological sense.
Because I am the same as you, and as a Russian, and as a Iranian, and as a whatever nationality or race, the concept of a country is null and void (in theory) because we are the same.

Then, with sameness is celebration of difference and I am afraid if you are not up to that development in your in life then you will have to wait until you get there, and I sincerely hope you do because many don't.

I take it you have viewed it in a political organization sense which is not intended. This unified whole is a derivation from physiological and philosophical thought and it also appears in Stoicism...it may well be part of Christianity as well but I am not a follower of that.

Centre left is organization of labour. So yes, if people want to band together and form a union then I am all for it and not only that, legislation should make it easy for them to do so. Equally, if a free market is the answer then so be it although there are every few examples of a totally free market where bigger people do not screw smaller people. Consequently I am very sceptical of free markets but go for regulated markets instead...I think everyone gets a fair go that way.

Agreement that non militant Unionism is a good idea and that regulated markets are better then free markets puts me a tad left of centre. 
In fact, I recommend having a go at the political compass questionnaire to see where you stand. There are others but that one seems to be the quickest yet still have some sort of depth.

Now, just to throw a spanner in the works. Our present government is Hard Right Wing Authoritarian and the opposition Centre Right Authoritarian. In fact, most of the right wing governments is power today are also authoritarian.

Go figure?
A statesman is normally defined as someone with a long and distinguished career in international politics and or diplomacy with the emphasis on long and distinguished.

Abbott has been at it for 9 months and has a lower approval rating then 'anybody else'.

I would have though Dove's comment was fair and accurate.

Lets put it another way, if Abbott is now a statesman then so is Simon Crean. They both had similar high teens approval ratings and both had rare bouts of competency.


Plain packaging for tobacco is a world leading legislation. 
In fact, its almost ground breaking - almost.

There are a number of other countries waiting to see if it survives because they want to do the exact same thing.

So whilst the ALP were disgraceful; lead, in the end, by a media tart and consumed by in fighting, they did do the odd good thing. 
Some of it was even more then a pass...maybe even high distinction.I agree Ian.

Further, if its an Australian thing then Australians killed 36 fellow Australians during Christmas last year on the roads.

Russian separatists (allegedly) killed 28 Australians last week.

On road toll we do not get he said she said opinions but we do get safety measures legislated.
Same with this.
This particular tax payer does not pay them to froth at the mouth with inane commentary.
I do expect them to fix it though and they can start with a historical account of the sequence of events since the breakup of the USSR and the role the USA has played, if any, in destabilizing the area for their economic and political gain.

In short, how did it come to this?
What diplomatic incompetence was involved?
Whose palm has been greased?
And what are they going to do to rectify it?You could ask the same thing of anyone earning over 3 times the average wage.

How much money is enough?
When will you be satisfied?
How many third world workers toiling in inhumane conditions do you need to prop up your lavish lifestyle?

Putin is just being a good capitalist in an empire building sense.
In the Lodge - apparently!?I wondered how you would justify the actions of the most authoritarian government since WW2.

Now I know.Good luck with that.

In fact, has it ever happened?Mick,
If you provide just one historical example of government mass intrusion being helpful then I will think about agreeing with you.

We have had 2500 years of democracy and power grabs like this have been common.

We know how this ends, history tells us that.
This is why we use intellegence gathering.
It can, and is, done without intruding on everyone.Paul 01,
But the ABC is biased.

In the name of balance, it attempts to sit between a very authoritarian, hard right LNP and a not so authoritarian and centre right ALP.

In doing so its a right wing, authoritarian news organization.Ted,
There is a wealth of info out there on this.
Studies arose out of the FoxNews phenomenon since it doesn't make sense to rely on a propaganda outlet for news when you are educated.

To save you the trouble, the summary is nobody screams bias like a conservative.
Second tactic is, if  not screaming bias then use the leftist label.

Also from the studies, the actual left as defined by a universal, fixed definition (and not a post modernist one) is only a few percent of the population in Western countries.

So when they label people as left, they often mean centre right.
You are twice as productive as your 1970's counterpart.

If you chose a 1970's lifestyle then you need to work half as long.No, no, no.

The corporate agenda works by destroying the enviroment and community.

5 generations ago there was not any childcare. The community usually pitched in and helped.
I remember my father was sick for a month and we stayed at a different house every night of the week after school until mother came home at about 7.

Thats what community is. Its pitching in to help knowing your neighbour will do the same for you.
In economic terms its called the gift economy becuase people exchange gifts - usually labour.

Coporates hate it becuase there is not a buck to be made.

Now, you cannot have people doing stuff for themselves. Economists cannot handle it so we make stupid rules of compliance and propogate fear that it might be done wrong.
Better to be broke and use an expert.


The silly thing is electricity for the masses did not come along until the 1900's. We had our first phone in 1978. Gas in 1987, before that, kerosine.

Living without modern sevices (except sewerage and potable water) is a very easy thing to do.I think it was Ted Turner who commented 'piracy is good for the business', and, 'we need them to buy 1 in 10 movies they watch'.

His reason was piracy kept his product front and centre.
If you need to buy everything then it will drift into the background and you will not bother after a while.

My personal experience is boxing.
I used to stay up and watch the big fights.
It then went to pay TV and I would go to the pub to watch.

Over time, my pub watching attendance waned and now, I do not bother anymore.
I even did not concern myself with the reason Commonwealth games which was free. I have lost interest.

I suspect Ted Turner realized movie watching is a habit and if its not maintained then a new habit takes over.'Stop listening...'

You are right there.

I listened for 6 months and kept thinking, that's not what they said in opposition.

One day I stumbled across a list of 50 lies, read each entry, and agreed they are worthy of the listing.
Immediately afterwards I found a list of 150 lies but they were a bit thin.

So, about 50 lies in 6 months or two per week.

Anyway, I have stopped listening. When any of those 'gentlemen' appear on my screen, I turn it over or turn it off.
If a coalition person says something, and if I can be bothered, I find a commentary from an expert in that field as a source of information.

There is no way I am handing over my thinking and/or listening faculties to these people and I would be surprised if anyone with a modicum of self-esteem would.

I am not sure debt is ever a problem.

If you look at where banks get their money from (thin air) then nobody is actually incurring loss when its not paid back.

If, however, banks could only lend out on deposits and government, rather then bankers, made 'new money' then that would be different.That's not fractional reserve banking as I understand it.People will ignore the gross inequity so long as growth gives them hope that their lot in life will improve.
That was from a US central banker.

For some of us,  we have been hammering away since Hawke started us on this neo-liberal experiment and have nothing to show for it. I am much worse off for the system not allowing me to hold 'my original job for life'. I once had penalty rates and holidays.

So, yes, some are not interested in 'financially sustainable' because they have been screwed for 30 years whilst the beautiful people have outstripped their wage rises by factors of between 2 and 10 000.

Ah, these are the houses you want.

Buy them at fire sale prices and then turn the manicured yard into one that supports life.

Even better is there are minimal neighbors to annoy you.People once spoke Latin. They do not anymore as it did not evolve.

Some of us think Christianity is the same. It allowed people to make sense of the world in less enlightened times but now that we quantum electrodynamics under our belts, maybe the idea of Christianity as an explanation has passed.

That can lead, providing your thought process is as twisted as mine, to the idea that discrimination against Christians falls in the same bucket as all other discrimination because a Christian is a Gay is a Women is an Over 40 Looking for Work is an .....

So, 'do not care' could be a bit strong. Maybe more like one only can put their attention to so many things is a better phrase.......or maybe not?.
I enjoyed this.

Watching the 7 o'clock news, I was told names were suppressed and those nasty Wiki leaks people have published the order.

Thanks for the tip.
2 minutes later I had the 17 names.

It must be a worry this interweb thingy. Government control is difficult.
If the population stopped being infatuated with celebrity for a day and paid attention, it would be all over red rover.

If I were  a minister I would be worried. 
Its only us Baby Boomers who are supporting old media models.Agreed.

I cannot get tax free petrol for my mower either.Potatoe,
You are right on the admin costs.

On farmers, my attitude has changed on that over the years.
They are not family farms anymore.

Consequently, I not so sure corporates need this subsidy.

Also, I know two so called family farmers. They both judiciously keep themselves in debt so they pay no tax. I don't know how common that is but I do not have any sympathy for them.

Lastly, on food, I grow some of my own. If farming went belly up then it just grow more of my own. It does matter to me that a farmer is my food source as I am only using them out of convenience. Instead of wasting time on the Drum, I would probably be gardening. Maybe its a good idea to make them pay full price after all.
....dogs, cats, possums, trees and water is one thing...

Without those things you are I are dead.I wonder if Shaun is young and has not experienced the world before post modernism lowered the tone of University debate.

First,  there is no left. Latham is not left. As a type of politic, the left fell along with the wall. It has been seen to not work. The sad thing is the right did not do the same thing with the GFC. We will have to wait for GFC MKII when socialism cannot bail out capitalism for the second time since there is no money remaining in government coffers.

The author speaks of the left but it no longer exists. You can be left of the far right LNP but that does make one left, more usually centre right or centre.

Second, having experts determine policy is not a bad idea in an evidence based society. The bit I would like to hear is how and to what extent does the population have influence.
By cultural leftism do you mean authoritarianism?

If so, our LNP is considered a lot more authoritarian then the greens. The LNP, like the US Democrats and Republicans have used Sept 11 as the excuse to remove many freedoms.Thanks, that is something to work with.

What would you then call the opposite?

So to take the opposite of your 3 point list:

Discriminate against females
Screw the poor to support big companies
Hold religion as unaccountable and absolute

From what I have seen, such people also claim to be on the side of good, and those who oppose them are obviously unhinged.

Where does that sit?If it were that bad, Bush would have changed it. He had 8 years to do so.

The broadest picture I could find on that matter was too many were falling out of the US economy. 
Capitalism had won, the winners win and the losers crawl off into a gutter and rot.

The remedy was to try and get them out of the gutter and back into the mix.

It didn't work.

As an additional aspect, you must be joking if you are suggesting a US president is leftist. Its wall to wall right over there. I think you need to go back to FDR to find a centre left president. As for a real left winger - not sure if that has ever happened. 
Ann, you might be proving my point.

The socialist Scandinavians are actually considered to be slightly left of centre.

Socialism is often considered to be soft communism by lay people. So, slightly centre left seems to produce the fairest society, one with a mix of social benefit and private reward.

That aside, if Scandinavians are socialist and the LNP is centrist as they try to paint themselves as then that's ok in regard to relativity, the distance between them remains.

One produces a fair society with a degree of personal reward and the other produces what we have.
One has civic mindedness and the other has people live off nothing for 6 months because they cannot find a job in a system that engineers unemployment to sit at about 6%.There are people who have defined this for us and they have a bit more credibility then someone posting on the ABC website. Of course if you accept other peoples assessment then you need to then accept someone else might know more about something then yourself. Some people struggle with that leap.

I suppose if you get unscientific about it, you need to put Stalin at one end and Ayn Rand at the other. Put some even gradations in between and then judge.

It would seem to me that as soon as someone gives credit to the market, they cannot be left but centre left at worse. that might be why impartial judges consider the most communist and extremist environmental party in the history of the universe, the GREENS to actually be centre left.

I get people like to escape labels as means to win argument. Its why I look for non post modernist definition and measurement on these matters. Being social and/or political science its rubbery but its better then nothing.What left is that?

It can't be the centre right ALP or the centre left Greens.

Is it the Socialist Alliance you speak of? 
If so then they have a voter base of under a percent so Latham would be the least of their worries.OK, greens far left, got it.

So, on leftism  scale of 0 to 10 we have centre at 0, centre right at 5, and communism at 10...and shades of grey in between

A far left greens - so maybe 9? 
I am thinking normal left is 7.5.
Now, rank communism is 10.

So, the difference between a far left greens and communism is one on the scale, otherwise known as naff all. So a party pushing for a market based solution to co2 is almost communist!

Are you serious?Well MT_Syd,
I have an attitude that corporates, like people who earn more then 10 times the median wage, should pay about 60% tax.

I also have an attitude that the tax take should be about 28% of GDP but only because of the overwhelming evidence that the 28% number, along with higher tax for the rich, produces the best results. This kind of thing swells the middle class and the whole charade rumbles along relatively smoothly.

Despite my attitude, and the weight of evidence, I do not see much happening.

I think the problem with your comment is you lump politicians with real people.
Real people are usually open to discussion and if I am open to move then so are they. With real people, if you both put your heads together, the result is better then both individuals could arrive at themselves.

Politicians however are either bought or peddle influence. Normal concepts of discourse do not apply.Steady on P of M.

I agree with you.

Hopefully I do not make a habit of it.My Classical Mechanics books discusses this in a side bar.

Newton did not get donged on the head. He watched an apple fall and theorized on why it fell down as opposed to sideways or upwards.

He then formulated his law on the topic using his outstanding mathematical and physics ability.

On Abbott, my understanding is the PPL scheme brainwave is his. However, different to Newton is he does not know to implement it so relies on others of his same misguided worldview.

Of course Newton is a giant in history and Abbott is an LNP politician.I wonder if WS has ever done it.

The rebels are battle hardened the AFP is not.

When a bomb drops near a rebel, he will 'out' for minimal time because he is used to it. An AFP will freeze from the shock of the blast, the horrible smell, and the bloody loud noise for a few seconds at best and a few seconds is more then enough.

Further, the rebels will have structures in place that see them working as a team - bourne from practical experience. The AFP will still be at the stage where they read it from a book. The AFP will learn quickly through associated training but a battle hardened rebel will have them on toast.

If a team of AFP come to grief, I wonder if the government propaganda machine can keep the thousands of mouths shut who have done it and who see the AFP well out of their depth.

The AFP will defend against a misguided an ambitious single citizen and that's about it. Come against a squad of rebels with intent and its goodnight.S-L-O-W-L-Y

Its a wonderful word but they never do it.

Reduce capital gains by a percent a year.
Introduce carbon pricing by a dollar a year.
Increase the home star rating system by 0.2 stars a year.
etc
etc

Instead, we hit everything in one go so we have bubbles.
black white, left right, up down, in out, goodies baddies.
Bipolar stupidity.

The actual problem is the LNP are not the ALP and vice versa. They will can the previous governments long term commitment for other reason then spite.

Here is another slowly, we need to slowly transit from our current form of government to something that works...probably over a 30 year period.
Yep, we know 5% or thereabouts abuse the system.

The other 95% are all set to take reasonable employment.

Can you please provide another 99 stories, 4 like this one and then another 95 where people have put in good effort only to be continually knocked back.
Jobs are created in the middle classes.

The larger the middle class, the larger the spending power, the more call for people to supply goods and services.

Small business does not create jobs, it responds to demand.

Keynes and centrist governments grew the middle class. The Chicago school and 30 years of right wing governments shrunk it.

When I first started voting it was the Left that were the nutcases. The wheel has turned.

Like I said in the news section, I have a small business.
I do not employ people. Bombing me with applications will not convince me I need to employ people.

Should someone state they 'enquired within' and you are checked up on, I will say you did even if you didn?t. If other micro businesses have similar memory lapses as to who have and have not sent unsolicited applications then this part of their stupid policy falls over.

Writing letters of complaint to politicians does nothing. 
I hope that for the unemployed my support helps in some small way. 
I hope for the politician, I can make your life a little more difficult.
Volunteering works because its not normal.

30 years ago, a resume printed in colour put you towards the front because it was not normal. Its now expected.

When half a million seek to volunteer, it will lose its impact as a means of putting yourself out there as it becomes expected.

My daughter is doing law. She has been told to expect about 2 years of part time volunteering before she picks a permanent gig. She asked the 60 year old man who told her that if he had to volunteer for two years to get his first job.

The answer was no.

My point is there is at least one industry where volunteering is not above and beyond, its a requirement. I suspect it will become that way for all.

In my lifetime it has gone from leave school at 15 and start stable employment to leave school at 17, do a 3 year dumbed down degree and then start casual work at 20. Its going to be also add 2 years volunteering and start casual work at 22. So parents are stumping up an extra 7 years of child rearing costs...probably more as casual employment does not make one self reliant.
I thought the last time we had genuine action was when Hawke and Keating were in.

People may not have liked the action but at least there was some.

I think the issue is neo-liberal economics since it is now known to reduce the middle classes, regardless of how much effort and endeavour is put in.
Additionally, the trickle down effect is proven to be a dud. Notable economists are increasingly seeing that the middle class is the driving force and not business. That is, put the money in the hands of people who buy the goods and services and not the people who provide them - in the right sort of balance of course.

With that, I agree we are screwed. We are screwed for as long as there is bi-partisanship on a dud system of economics.

The bit I suspect you wont like Peter is in fixing the mess, we need to be taxed at about 27 or 28% of GDP (so more tax) and the rich, those earning more then 3 times the average wage, need to be taxed at about 60 cents in the dollar...with the uber rich, those earning more then 10 times the average wage at about 75 cents in the dollar.

That said Peter, I still stink on the idea of planes being shot out of the sky so I probably stink on levels of taxation and reduction of the free ride to corporate business. I am sure you will let me know.
The one permanent emotion of the inferior man is fear - fear of the unknown, the complex, the inexplicable. What he wants above everything else is safety.

HL MenckenYes, and sadly it seems to work.Good idea Julie.

Don't worry about the NATSEM report and just keep hammering in on those with little income.

I think the problem Julie is any good Aussie boy growing up in the 60's had chivalry thrust down our throats on a daily basis.
Consequently, this 'look after the weaker' concept is still within society and its becoming a real problem.In the history course I took, the middle east was called the graveyard of nations.

It gets this name because power crazed westerners have had a dip at it continually over the last 3000 years and only Alex, in 323BC, had any success and that was only because he lived there.

Abbott and the US can do as they like and be hated as much as people like. The fact is, if you are hell bent on destroying your nation, have a protracted war in the middle east.

That leads to the genius who plonked a western nation in the middle of Palestine. Always was going to end well I am sure.Pay with cash.

As for the Greens, yes they have a libertarian tinge - the only major party to do so.That caught my eye as well.

To my knowledge, mathematics is the most rigorous, unbiased, and truthful discipline we have.

When I was learning the Principle of Mathematical Induction, it was stated that we don't know if this is true. We do know that no one has proven it to be false so please use it with that knowledge.

The religion I was exposed to was never so honest.

This article is indicative of that. Its rubbery with fact.
FW,
Firstly, resurrection.
A fundamental tenant is he who asserts, proves. 

From a secular point of view, the proof is more scepticism because 2600 years of science says so. The proof is actually at your feet. To date, there is no proof and the evidence does not hold using our system of logic and reasoning. In short, its still only an assertion.

In fact you have followed this tenant with wars. If people assert Christianity causes wars then they need to prove. For the record, capitalism killed a lot more people then Christianity.

Next, a person evolves through life. The tolerance aspects you mention are simply part of normal personal development and growth. You do need religion for that and I would be interested to see if studies show religion assists in that growth. My personal experience and observation would be if there is an effect, its not noticeable.

Last, just as people grow and develop, so does society. Many scholarly people have the opinion religion had its place in allowing us to develop to where we are but its now time to move beyond it. They believe that holding on to religion is now holding us back as its usefulness has past.

Our level of enlightenment is now such that we can and should move on. The suggestion is belief systems are still needed for many to make sense of the world but they need to be less faith based and more evidence based. We, as a society, are not yet up to purely evidence based systems. 
The idea of a religious God is considered to be improbable at best. There are belief structures out there that are possible but not likely. My view is if people want a faith, it should be reflecting of our current level of society and ought to be 'possible' instead of 'improbable'.

With that, my view is religion has no place in school but I am open to other belief structures in line with the progression of society.

Perhaps in 500 years time we will not belief structures at all.
It seems the latest post modernist version of shifting definitions has it that leftists are chattering intellectuals devoid of real world common sense.

I suspect it is this way because intellect is aligned to university and as we know, ALL lecturers are screaming communists.

Given the right in this country is defined as not being the left (Liberal party manifesto), the right need to be the opposite of the left.

So, democratic equality, citizenship, equity and social justice are items that tend to require a degree of though. With thinking being leftist, the answer to your question appears to be no, they do not believe in that stuff.You have a point about the bible reading.

It lost its gloss with me when I found out Noah was 900 years old.Topic Line Integral. (Maths)

The line can drawn by a Christian, Buddhist, Communist,  Looney Lefty or Rabid Righty. Its still a line. The proof for its solution still involves the infinite sum of small line segments.

It still requires some calculus to solve which we can thank Riemann for. Riemann can believe whatever he wanted to believe, his solution however works everytime...mainly because its based on rigorous proof.

That's one mathematical topic. I can list thousands that are based on rigorous proof and devoid of 'values'. I do not get the author on this. Perhaps he could come back and enlighten us.
Zing, I am not a Persian gulf expert but I do believe their preferred method of government is chiefdoms.

The fundamental thing to this for me is capitalism has killed a billion people in the last hundred years. That dwarfs any and all religions regardless of how much news coverage they get.

So yeah, we want them to have democracy and we want them to stop murdering themselves but really, who the hell are we to say anything.

We (the west) are still killing people through unexploded ordinance for the Vietnam war. And just because it dropped from an American plane, do not think for an instant we have been anything other then in lockstep behind them. (Except for Whitlam but he was an aberration)Tony Abbott from the ABC news article MH17: Prime Minister Tony Abbott hits out at 'shambolic' recovery effort; Government considers listing outrage as terrorist act; rebels move bodies to refrigerated train

Quote
So that is what all of our energies and efforts are directed to. We want to retrieve the bodies, we want to investigate the site, and we want to punish the guilty. That's what we want to do.
Unquote

I wonder if the Iraqis want to punish the guilty for invading under the yet to be found weapons of mass destruction. Their toll is not 200 odd but 10000 per year.

I wonder if Iran wants to punish the guilty for shooting down IR655 in 1988 - 290 dead.

When you point the finger at someone else, there are three pointing back at you.
You have described corporate externalization.

This issue may well go away if externalization was made illegal.I am not sure believe is a very good word.

Any proper science book I have read normally proves its statements and conclusions. It applies rigor. In fact, it nearly always asks, in the preface, that you do not 'believe' but draw conclusion using logic and reasoning.

The CO2 dilemma was nailed in 1896. I am not aware of any scientist who has drawn an alternative conclusion because to do so, you would need to bring down some rather established theories.Its not a struggle between believers and deniers.

Its an indication of how self conceited a person is.

This is science so its language is maths. People could not workout which can of beans was cheaper so we now have price per Kg on the supermarket shelf.

Despite that, they can dispute a science that requires advanced calculus and intermediate statistics to understand. This equates to a 7 year old Auskicker thinking he can take a mark over the top of Steven Silvagni in his prime. Simply ludicrous.

In his book How to Win Friends and influence People, Carnegie wrote 'When dealing with people, let us remember we are not dealing with creatures of logic. We are dealing with creatures of emotion, creatures bristling with prejudices and motivated by pride and vanity'.

How right he is.

I further note in this article a purist is now defined as someone who proses a measure that will actually do something. For all you people out there who learnt English well enough for your word processor to parse it and put it together a coherent sentence, you are purists.
Peter, in your first paragraph you have suggested that all opinions are equal.

In your second paragraph, you have pulled the abnormal instance and suggested that is normal.

In your third paragraph you have scientist in quotes. That is a propaganda tactic to downplay the credibility of someone. You could have gone with so called scientists but you opted for quotes.



RC,
You raise an interesting topic and it refers back to schooling.

When school is about making people 'job ready', it ignores history and more importantly, the fundamental precepts (10 as I was taught) that pervade history. With these precepts, history can be read in context and it becomes an interesting story and not at stream of dates to be memorized and regurgitated on an exam paper. 

If we knew history, then the information you have included would be a requirement to any commentary on any matter because people would be looking for the 400 year context so as to place the present. 

Spot on.Common sense is sense that is common.

Topic, the death penalty.

In 1947, the sense that was common was 67% in favour.

In 2009, the sense that was common was 23% in favour.


Addressing CO2 is not based on common sense just like the death penalty.  Its based on the ability for the propagandists to win out and on the emotive response of the population of the day.You still need to take the blinkers off clete.
The union movement represents 18% so it deserves 18% representation.

The business council represents 1% tops and so does not deserve to have the ear of every LNP minister.

If the union movement is over represented then the business council slaughters them for effectiveness in bastardizing the system for their own gain.
As for corruption, you really need to look at cooperate corruption and seanone has provided a small snippet for you to mull over.

Whilst you have raised some relevant issues, you clearly forgot to mention the other, and your favoured side of the coin.The fight is between organized money and organized labour.

It cycles about every eighty to a hundred years.

At present organized money is winning out.

The next part of the cycle is a significant war where organized money funds both sides. Organized money then gets to recoup its war investment through enhanced business activity in restoration after the war effort. Remember its war, government is broke so its only the uber wealthy who have the money.

20 years after the rebuild, society has had enough and organized labour again rises and wins out.

60 years later, the war generation is either dead or have been convinced that allowing organized money to prosper is the best way so it rolls on again.

This time around, organized money is in the form of corporations. 
In the past its been in the form of: 
Bankers.
The Robber Barons. 
The European Aristocracy. 
etc

Clete, you are clearly an educated person. Society works better if educated people take the whole view and not the convenient one. We need the educated to stop getting caught up in these kindergarten he said, she said, bickering fights.

This business you engage in of bashing unions and elevating business really is silly. You need to take the long view and understand both are needed in a balanced fashion and at present, its unbalanced to the favour of organized money.

Forgot to mention..

and with all that clete, you can forget about anything the CFMEU of Storm investments ever did.

If you want atrocity and unfairness, go to war.

So, with a critical mass understanding the cyclical nature of money v labour, the idea of stupid wars is almost negated. That's why we need people such as your good self to see the whole picture. You vote and I am sure you discuss these things in your circle of friends. By discussing the total picture, facts are spread and the political class is held to account because the media begins to start talking about these things because they start to occupy the minds of the people its trying to flog its wares to.I have read in a few places that the most effective government is one that takes about 28% of GDP and has its highest income earners on 60% tax. Not taxing the wealthy is actually detrimental to even the wealthy themselves - hard to believe but true. It relates to avoiding 60% tax so they are forced to invest and that benefits themselves as well as everyone else.

Highly educated people would want small government because they were generally born (yes born, its now been established your circumstance has more bearing on you life then your own effort) into a circumstance where they will do well.

For the inconsiderate 30% that were born in less salubrious circumstances, they need help.Macky,
Within your comment is the answer.

Construction has mandated industry targets. Star Ratings for houses, Green Star for commercial buildings, MEPS for electrical installations.

The actual way to do this is to implement an extensive industry compliance scheme which is tailored to each industry.
California started this 9000 years ago with its tailpipe emissions targets.

The proof is already in the pudding. MEPS schemes are superior and we have a 2 decade database as proof.Snaggy,
I think the problem here is society looks to higher authorities to sort these things out.

My view would be to relax associated laws so I can happily take my can of spray paint and blot it out without reprisal. If said car hire company wants to graffiti their vehicles then I am happy to help.

This extends to a lot of things by the way. I often walk past when I could stop and help because I simply cannot be bothered with people, their attitude, and the one in a hundred thousand instance where the good natured get screwed by the courts.The lady in question has a doctorate, presumably in law and perhaps constitutional law.

Whatever her doctorate is, she has made a lifes work of knowing her field.
Being Clerk of the Senate, I suspect she knows her stuff.

Its more then decency and respect. Palmer is an example of the Australian manager. A bully who either sacks people or sidelines them because they did not dance to their tune.

I watched a three Consulting Engineers get the sack by a bully and she was laughing about it. Ho,ho,ho, very funny. All three are very diligent and competent people.
She thought she was tough.

My response was to make her go through an intermediary.

Australian industry pays dearly through loss of productivity from the likes of Palmer. The management productivity bottleneck is very well known but glossed over in the quest to bust up unions.Democracy is where elected reps work in the best interests of its people.

It was never in our best interest to fall head over heels for Chicago School economics where public assets and funds are syphoned off to the privileged 0.01%.

I do not hear Clive or any of the others talk about expanding the middle classes. All I hear is if you cant afford it then tough luck and if you are not already middle class then we reserve the right to put barriers in your way to make it harder to get there.
I am afraid there is a whole more to a functioning democracy then just electing people and letting them free range.Jack,
I do hope you come back to read this and also I hope the moderator does not kill it off.

The Club of Rome are similar to the Bilderburg Group, the Trilateral Commission and the Council of Foreign Relations.

If you really wish to discover the error of your ways then I suggest Reading Tragedy and Hope by Carrol Quigley. Its a bit of a war of attrition but it will give you a history of the world from 1890 to 1964.

Suffice to say, the groups I mention are about establishing something called the new world order. Some paint them as the illuminati but personally I think that is a bit of a conspiracy theory.

Most certainly however is their membership has more clout then the G8 and if they decide something as a group then rest assured, its going to happen. Just one of those groups alone can bring down the USA if it so desires.

If you think voting for either the red or blue team determines the path of the nation then think again.

So, there is something behind the club of rome and their starvation commentary.
Read Tragedy and Hope, read between the lines of the Club of Rome and you will work it out for yourself.
The Greens are a centre left  party.

The LNP are hard right party.

I would sincerely hope the greens have next to nothing in common with the LNP.It goes in 80-100 year cycles.

We are about at 1920.
Bankers and large corps are getting their hands on government money. Right wing governments are in vogue and they are handing it over faster than at any other time in this 80 year cycle.

The middle class is being reduced and an underpaid, over skilled underclass is growing.

What happens next is a significant war where the bankers fund both sides. In the aftermath the right get even more power until a charismatic centre left wing (thats a real left centre left and not the centre right ALP who are named as leftish in the extremist right wing press we have) leader pops up through public disenchantment.

The signal for this introduction of centre left politics is when the rich require armed guards to walk the streets and the public almost completely ignore its parliament.

So, the structural deficient is cured when organized labour is once again permitted to properly counter balance organized money. You get this by voting in leftist governments with vision. In this country that means the centre left greens are candidates but they need to find vision from somewhere. In essence the lead comes from America who are further down the road of organized money having control. Currently, they have that communist Obama who is further to the right then our ALP and he has a much vision as our greens although he does deliver a very believable and compelling speech. Consequently, this rise of organized labour to be in balance with organized money is not on the horizon.

The issues you mention are just outcomes of the central problem...in my opinion.


In all of history, it is only unions that have spread the wealth across the community.

This non-unionized idea has over two thousand years of history to it. It you can find a single generation in the western world since Ancient Greece that had a better lot through a non-unionized workforce then I will entertain your comment.

What we need is a unionized workforce. What we don?t need is militant unionism that thinks it can run business better then the business owner.

There is a balance here and in my opinion, you are way off scale.

So please, can you provide a historical example where anything you have put up has been shown to be true. There is just one caveat, your example has to come from the west since the order that democracy, technology, law, and medicine are introduced are the biggest factors on the make up of society. 
Society choses to allow me to die in gross pain.
I would chose euthanasia every day of the week.

If society decided conscription was law.
I would hide my adult children.

Society tells me I cannot have chooks in my back yard.
I have two.

Just because society decides stuff does not mean one should automatically follow.
There is no substitute for thinking for yourself.Lets go back to the beginning.

Laws were developed so we could live in harmony with each other. There was a balance between freedom and community.

These types of laws were few in number and people really did not need to know them. They just needed to apply the golden rule.

Over time, it has gotten out of hand and that is where I decide for myself. There are numerous commentators and philosophers who agree its out of hand.

For example, Incyte owns 2000 human genes. So, they own part of my genetic code.

I did not give it to them so who did? 
Society thats who. 
Now, I do not give permission for society to sell of my genes. No one asked me and had they, I would have shown them the door.

By your comment, you are happy for that. You are happy to roll over and accept societys decision.

I am not.

Its a simply a difference of opinion.

I am not saying either of us are right.

I am saying no thanks, its not happening to me.

By the way, there is recognition in law about this because it is known that if we all just follow, there is no progression. I cannot remember the term but I do know a significant player challenged and the doctrine was accepted in the 1930s. Gandhi was highly successful through non-violent non-conformity. 
They also had a slave class, convicts, to provide labour at well below market rates.'Surely the Ukrainians, like any other nation, should be free to choose who they can do business with?'

They are and they can. 
And given 3500 years history, Russia is free to go to war against whoever they want.

People can be bigots.
Politicians can lie.
Countries can war.Can't speak for The Yank but I can speak for one of the 'others' - namely me.

I would rather people grew up from the mental age of 5 and viewed the world in colours other then just black or white.

So common in here, the a false alternative logical fallacy...well done you for keeping the tone of discussion as low as possible.Some of us have a right to be bigots and others have a right to hold half a dozen conflicting arguments in mind at a time whilst forming opinions.

My two questions for you are:
What was the rest of the world doing at the time of Keating, Howard, and Swan and were we any different?
When was the last time Australia had an actual left wing government?
Any legislation passed was only after Abbott first got his head on the news giving the impression of opposition.

The propaganda was oppose, the result was generally pass, usually after calling for a no confidence motion.

Personally, I would rigid conduct guidelines in place like we see for doctors.


A little check of fact and logic might be in order.

Most Labor members come from am union background.
True noting the word most.

Never produced anything for profit.
Not true. Some Labor minsters started by getting their hands dirty on the shop floor before becoming union delegates. Use of the word never is your problem

When the they need money...
Again not true because they ALL were not union delegates.

The rest of the Labor members are lawyers who once again never actually develop anything to sell.
Again not true. Gary Gray for example is an economist from Woodside. There are also teachers amongst others.

Labor not one in a position of power has actually ran a business to employ people and make a profit, hence why they only know how to spend!
Not true. Jacinta Collins was small business woman.

Conclusion...
The problem with making absolute statements is you are almost always wrong.
Exactly.

I do not go anywhere near buying the end product of my work.
The thing with the LNP for me is what is the plan.

Less tax. No boats. Budget in surplus.

Then what?

In the mountains of coverage these people get, I have never heard of a positive plan.

For example, what does Australia look like in 50 years if there was 50 years of an LNP government?
The only snippets has been 
1 Andrews who alluded to further overpopulation of the country because killing our ecology is a 30% free kick to economic growth.
2 Abbott who wants to cover more bits of the country with tarmac because we love our cars (despite peak oil being with us for 6 years now)Quite Right Chris L.

I received the standard straw man, tangential bulldust comment one gets from a mono eyed, rusted on, evangelical LNP sheeple.

What they do not accept is the people who make a life out of putting measurement to this stuff adjudge the LNP as more authoritarian then the ALP. They struggle with that because 60 years ago the ALP was actually left wing and the LNP was almost libertarian.

Then again, we all know what they say about the LNP and the halcyon days of the 1950's.Ok got it

Our ecology is stuffed. There are 11 million too many of us. Left to our own devices we are bacteria in a Petri dish.

The conservatives plan is no plan. That's why your ideology doesn't work.Ah Goldie,
Its called 'The Great Un-Remembering'.

History cycles every 80 to 120 years because the globe has a turnover of new people in that time.

For example, those who fought the great war are mostly dead.
Their children have recollection but they too are mostly pushing up daisies.

The next generating starts to not remember.
After 3 or 4 generations the forgetting to remember becomes such that some twit thinks its a great idea to do it all again.

Because most of the population have not remembered, said twit gets a following.

Bleeding back into the body of your comment. Scandinavians are Social Democracies. We are a Liberal Democracy but were a Social Democracy only a few decades ago. I too would like to know what we passed up for the sake of being able to buy a cheaper iPod.

My personal view it this is fixed by a basic history education.
This education would start at 3500 BC with the Egyptians and then be a 4 year conversation where the high school child is taken through the development of history from Egypt, through Greece and Rome, on the middle east, China, back to Europe, then America, and Spanish and English colonization.

As for this current political stupidity, its been done before and more then once. It ends with a highly charismatic tyrant winning favour and ruling with an Iron Fist. Eventually the people organize into a civil war and over throw the government.

Demarchys have different formats.

The one of citizen juries is problematic as Bogans potentially get a go.
Here you would get policy on front yard lounge chairs, late night motorcycle revving, general beer swilling, pyjamas in public fashion tips, and in your face confrontational 'discussions'. (I live in the Bogan capital of Western Australia)

Preferable is government by representational committee where committee membership requires at least a modicum of intelligence like being functionally literate (so being able to pass a year 6 English or Maths test). This would be a better option then the charade we currently have.In my view, the churches 'moral failures' stems from its strong adherence to a 2000 year old book written for iron age peasants.

So much development in 2000 years that is ignored on the basis of blind faith.'4% of clergy'

I think your use of the word 'only' says something.

In Australia, 0.04% of the population commits serious crime causing injury or sexual assault.
I decided to lump in serious crime causing injury because in my opinion, the two are equivalent in their devastating effect on the individual.
Doing so makes the church look better. 

So, the clergy are 100 times more likely to commit devastating crime but you use the word 'only'.

I am with aargh to some extent.

I would like to know why the Prime Minister is supporting the head of an organization that harbours hardened criminals.
I would also like to know why such an organization gets a privileged place in society.

Of course it would good to know the similar offense rate of a evidence based organization such as the Secular Humanists or the Modern Stoics for comparison.
I was not able to find it.
And conversely...

I work from home.
My window faces the street 45 metres away.

I watched a 'couldn't give a stuff' delivery driver stop at the verge and peer down the lengthy driveway. He then hopped out of his van, put a note in my letter box and drove off.

I picked up the note which said I wasn't home and had to pick up the parcel from the depot which was 8Km away.
Clearly my driveway was too hard.
I rang the depot and contested the note and was told the delivery driver would not have done that and they will only hold the parcel for 7 days so when was I going to collect it.

Parcel post however is brilliant.
Same driver every time.
I have spoken to him and showed him a spot to leave things if I am not home.

I now ask who the delivery service is on ordering.
I make sure 'couldn't give a stuff' delivery service has nothing to do with it.

That's the thing with competition.
It produces shabby service when they think they have the power.

Government however has service commitments and the people who do it often have the time to try and do a good job...they are time pressured into ridiculous behaviour.Why should the taxpayer prop up the profitable part whilst giving away the money making bit.

Its this thinking that allows people to say privatization works when it doesn't.

My view is its privatized only if they take the whole thing and also only if they can demonstrate an improvement on the existing.

An example is phones which everyone thinks is great.
I was doing my small part in building the NBN in 1989. A government owned Telecom would have delivered it by 2005. It was part of standard network modernization.

Instead we have what we have today...a government instigated report saying how hopeless the other side was and a network that is going to be inferior to the 1989 model that was partly installed.



If government keeps the profitable parts then it requires less tax.

Telecom was returning half a billion a year and engaging in upgrades and modernization before being sold off.
Government now wants money to build an NBN which was already being done under the old system.

Australia post, always a loss making enterprise, typically shared its buildings with phone exchanges to spread the load.

With a combined Postal and Phone service, the PMG, it was self funding. 
With billions invested, there was some return and that was announced in parliament every year.

We now have communally invested billions in loss whilst 80 people own more then 3 billion people combined.
Its how money is being funnelled way from the middle classes into the pockets of the 0.1%

I am sorry but you are describing neo-liberal economic theory which we know does not work.
We knew it did not work two years after the Washington consensus but we still went ahead with it anyway.

SVJ,
Keynes has the runs on the board.

You concoct whatever government policy is palatable that puts the money in the pocket of the middle class and enough to the poor that allows them to participate.

The middle class drives the economy, not business.

Can I now have that $100?'Team Australia' is a false alternative.

On the team or not!

Abbott, I am not on your team.

Also, I served this country for ten years and I am not about to swallow anything from someone who didn't when it comes to commitment to country. Especially not a religious right wing politician who uses his memberships in community service organizations as photo opportunities.33 years eh.

Somewhere in your 33 years you were not exposed to logical fallacy.

'So the military are the only ones who can run a country? '

Search your 'logical fallacy is' and you can find the answer for yourself.
No, its team patriotism.

Perhaps that escaped you.

Perhaps also it has escaped you where patriotism leads to. 
3500 years of written history and patriotism always end up in one place.

Lets just say, I either hope you know how to use weaponry or you die of old age before it goes pear shaped.

Marty,
You have nailed it.

There are two aspects, borne from POW camps that Australians did differently.

One is under extreme pressure, Australians were much more likely to submit to communal effort and abide to committee structure which means subordinating selfish individual desire.

Two was gross understatement yet quiet pride in place of origin.

Although these traits are now historical, some of us still carry ourselves in these ways.

Team Australia is a juvenile in your face bogan slogan designed to dog whistle at both the Islamic community and nationalistic dimwits.

Hawke managed to lead a much more cohesive Australia in much tougher economic times yet never resorted to such idiotic slogans.
I would suggest Abbott would not have the talent to serve on Hawke's outer ministry.Yes, most people's personal budget is not in the black until their 50's.

Also, the thing that puts them in all that debt is not usually an income producing asset.
Read and interesting account of a conservatives a few weeks back.

In their eyes, if one has millions then they have made it. They are upstanding citizens because one only ever has millions through their own hard won effort. These millionaires are models for us all to follow.
Also, tax is considered a penalty or a fine.

So, as the account goes, why on earth would one penalise those who have made it and are model citizens?

Consequently, you tax the poor to give to the rich.
You tax those who are not models citizens to give to those who are.
Its their well earned reward.

That then is this budget.

Following on, a conservative is a tough love type of person. Empathy is not in the vocabulary.

I think they stuffed up because they missed the mark with population. Most people are empathetic to some extent. Not many are tough love types anymore. Most will not support something devoid of empathy unless its a security issue.

The budget is not a security issue and most do not see taxing the poor to benefit the rich is a valid method.Part of the Liberal Party Manifesto is 'they are not the Labor Party'.

A party built on hatred of the other side.

Its hard to see compromise and collaboration with the ALP.Been doing this for years.

The problem with the house is your vote must eventually cascade down to one of the 2 majors.
In my seat, a Green candidate once polled 15%. That's as close as its been for a minor in over 30 years.

The senate however is different. You can almost be guaranteed your votes does not end up with a major party if you vote below the line.

So, for the house write a simple two line joke on the ticket for the AEC staff.

For the senate, get a postal vote and take your time at home to fill in all the boxes.I do not buy newspapers and neither do any of my children or their immediate friends.

My kids and their friends are University educated and would historically be interested in a broadsheet newspaper.

So there we have 12 young people who do not buy Murdoch's product when he would have probably hoped for 3 or 4 of them to be loyal customers.

Whilst 12 trees do not make a forest, if that is consistent then his business is broken.

For the record, my kids will watch something and if they find the speaker to be drawing a low bow then they dump him or her fairly quickly. For example Bolt on climate chooses to ignore all aspects that do not support his argument. My kids notice that and I can say they simply do not bother with Bolt. They do not have time to sift all his commentary for the odd piece of fact or well deduced conclusion. They are not interested in left right, progressive conservative. They are after reasonable conclusions and actions based on evidence and fact.

Equivalently, they do not bother too much with politicians of any colour. They wait for an expert to provide a summary with conclusions and read or watch them. Consequently, the news bulletin for them becomes a source of topic and the internet, not main stream media, is where they find their story.I agree.

My comment was about Murdoch but applies equally.

Over here in the West its not Murdoch but Stokes. Either way, its a newspaper with strong conservative bias. If there was a major leftist newspaper I am sure it would be taking hits as well.

That said, the Sunday Times is Murdoch. When The Libs won the last State Election, the references in this Sunday Edition was 'Our Glorious Colin' for Barnett and just 'McGowan' for the ALP leader.

We all have our bent when it comes to politics but for those of us with a modicum of  impartiality, the Sundays Times' effort was something consistent with North Korea and its Dear Leader.
On that basis, I am not so sure there is much difference between the agenda driven internet 'news sites' accept that one is free and the other is a wrapper for fish and chips.
I recently read an interesting account of the conflicts American does and does not get involved in.

In each case, there is an American spokesperson fronting the orchestrated media event; standing at the lectern in front of the flag with relevant departmental logo on the wall behind (you know the scene, Obama does it all the time) explicitly stating its is not about oil.

Yet, in each conflict, the said country just happens to have some influence on oil supply.

For example, Iraq yes, Zimbabwe no.

May suggest the Saudis are safe for as long as they drain their oil field at acceptable rates of extraction and ship to the USA.
I too am interested to see how it goes.

There should be a more even division its international interventions as it pursues truth, justice, and the American way.

It will perhaps get to the stage of a remoteness of believability when the next spokesperson stands up and states the invasion is not about oil.I have heard that before John.

The first time I heard about it I looked into it and found these massive oil deposits are tar sands and the amount of commercially viable deposit is grossly overblown.

Drilling for oil and excavating tar sands comes at a different price. Also, the environmental destruction is vastly different.
From memory, access to one such field meant digging up the Colorado river.

Perhaps my memory is wrong. I am sure someone will alert me of that.If research zero growth economics you might find, as I did, that those qualities you mention are no longer default qualities and its economics that moves us a way from them.
To pick one from Ray68, egalitarianism is under severe strain because we compete with each other for not enough jobs.

Consequently, we are not equal but must be, and think we are, better.

Similar arguments are made for the rest of the items on both yours and Ray68s list. 

You cant ask people to beat each other to death in the workplace and then claim we are all on the same team. It does not divide so neatly.
Difference is the purvey of the wedge politician.

Hawke was the last consensus politician we had.
Australia was a nicer place when Hawke was in office.

I also do not attend meetings when given three days notice and no agenda.One year group went through primary school during the Liberal party reign of 1992 to 1998 . Functional literacy is really nothing more then having some sort of working memory of high school curriculum.

So, if there is s shred of truth in your assertion, there will be a massive hole in the statics.

Functional literacy is things like being able to read a map or a timetable. Working out which can of baked beans is the least expensive.
Knowing that Melbourne is not in Western Australia.

This stuff is taught in primary school - before a worklife begins.

So unless they are leaving school at age 12, I cannot see how your reasons contribute to functional illiteracy.
If I remember my history correctly, Rhodes is the fellow who created a diamond consortium that created an artificial scarcity in an effort to drive up the price is this not so rare gemstone.

On that basis, Rhodes is about deception and manipulation.

I would say Abbott has learnt well.Fair?

Yep, Crowley is a pure gentleman as is Ballantine.

Of course you were always going to catch my eye.

As someone who played rep sport in every game I took up, I took to heart the motto of 'it doesn't matter if you win or lose, its how you play the game'.

But of course I was playing sport.If that what leasers do then shouldn't ta leader be saying it.

What was it again, an approval rating lower then 'anybody else'.


I guess the thing to me is 'team Australia' is the sort of guff we went with a primary school sport carnival.

If he wishes to speak to me then he needs to grow up, juts like I have.That's a different argument. Its a lawyer thing and not at community thing.

I am a martial artist.

There is a whole encyclopaedia of laws against me if I confront a bully and subsequently things go pear shaped and I wind up hitting him or her.

Consequently, I keep my skills to myself.

Money is put into the system via loans.
When a bank lends you 100K, they only have 5K.
The other 95K comes out of thin air.
Such is the Ponzi scheme of fractional reserve banking.

And so to debt.
If nobody carried debt then there is no new money the growth god stops.

So how would you like it? No growth and no debt or the other way around?

For me, zero growth economics is the go which means no growth, no debt, no interest, no inflation and no confected competition between people and nations.
Since such thinking makes me an extremist oddball, I suppose 'some' growth and debt would be mainstream thinking.

Debt to GDP of, is it 12% now? 
Would that be classed as 'some'?

If not, how much is 'some'?My understanding is Keynes picked the eyes out of economics to make it suitable for the political economy.

Under the Keynes model, the middles classes grew.

Under the Keynes model, there was some tax rates.

My view is we should go back to them so if you are rich (earning more then 10 times the median wage) then a 75% tax rate is the go.
Also under Keynes, low income earners did not pay much tax and equally, welfare was given to those that had nothing.
Yes, it is a great solution but only because it has a history or working.

Your retort is theoretical because what actually happens is they invest locally to avoid tax.
I think a more pressing issue is a commission on how to move to a zero growth economy with a sustainable population.

We are consuming at a much greater rate then the globe can produce. For example, it takes 10 or so million years to make crude oil and we are going to burn the lot in 300 years. Another example is dirt. We hit peak dirt years ago and once artificial oil based fertilizers are gone, its crunch time. Not enough dirt and no way of extracting multiples of its natural production rates.
 
Current thinking is Australia can support 10.5 million people: we have 23 million and are looking at 35 million.
The Perth coastal strip can support half a million so we cram in 1.5 million and then blame everyone for using too much water. 
I will be interested to see how shrill it becomes when the expected 3.5 million is reached.

Yes taxation is important but its secondary to a much larger issue.
The last Left Prime Minister we had was Whitlam.

The Left died in this country when Hayden stood up at a National Labor Conference in the very early 1980's and told then to either keep bickering amongst themselves and watch the Libs have another Menzies length stint in office or get with the times. Getting with the times saw to the drovers dog election with an immediate shift to centre left with continual drift to become centre right by 1993.

So, no Left to speak of for over 30 years custard.

Perhaps Hayden can offer you some advice also about getting with the times.If one is not into post modernist argument then centre right will always remain centre right.

Labelling one as Left because one is not as far right as this government leaves no room for someone who might actually be a Leftist.

I mean, Doug Cameron is the one remaining left wing dinosaur in the ALP - by post modernism he is communist which might be fair enough but what does that then make Stalin?Exactly.

The ABC sits between and a far right LNP and a centre right ALP which makes them right wing.

This is an article about tax reform in the system of growth economics.

If we actually had balance, we would see just as many articles about zero growth economics. We would also see articles about making corporates responsible for their stuffs up - think any oil spill in any part of the world or any Uranium mine since they all have leaking tailings dams.

In fact we should have just as many articles about market failure and or non level playing fields where the rich and powerful use their influence to contort government policy in their favour. 

So since its wall to wall growth economics, I agree, definitely biased.Drift into socialism?

Seriously???

Political Compass puts the LNP as hard right and the ALP as centre right shading right wing.

Socialism! 

Nationalised industry and compulsory unionism.
All people being paid the same regardless.

I must be living on a different planet.


I think the job is beyond just anyone in the same way not everyone is capable of being an engineer.

My view is keep with the current except:
- make politicians subject to the consumer act (misleading and deceptive conduct)
- have politicians do professional development like the rest of us
- have monthly plebiscites with the internet used as the voting system.

Religious hard liners are part of the community and so have a say. If everyone also has a say then they would be drowned out.



In the latest episode of Upper Middle Bogan, the oldest bogan daughter laments to the socially elite 'mother' of her adopted sister, the sister is a doctor, that it could have been her. She suggests to the 'mother' that it is she (the bogan) that could have been adopted and been the doctor through a mere birth choice.

So the fictional difference between doctor and bank employee getting screwed by management is one of upbringing.

Into the real world, that 'circumstance' is more normal then not. We need more then luck. 
We need social circumstance and an upbringing involving the right social circle.

I know an egg farmer who is the complete version of a loser but is worth tens of millions - he was born of the right father.

I have no doubt Ms Kelly is extraordinarily good at what she does. The thing that gets me is how that sweeps into the general populace as an example of the 'dream' and how anyone can do it. The fact is plenty slog their guts out over an entire lifetime and will never do any better then an average wage. Many will land a median wage and be convinced to donate overtime (or lose their job).

I think their is more to it then luck but it is a must have ingredient of you are not 'born to it'.No, excessive salaries are valid here.

Aristotle suggested a pay range of 1:6
JP Morgan, 1:10.
Adam Smith, 1:20 maximum.

Kelly enjoyed 1:300.


The thing with exec pays is there is a whole societal structure behind it. It even boils down to driving on public roads to get to their private school and using the output of slave labour coming through public ports and rail to source their school ties and blazers. It is never self made in an interconnected world so if they are getting more then their due, its at someone else's expense.

I would think one person can be 20 or 30 times that of another but with societal payback for propping them up, a remuneration multiple of about 1:10 would be right. So a Westpac CEO would do about the same as a Prime Minister.

That would be fair reward for outstanding performance.The so-called progressive left are indeed so-called.

Firstly the left are actually centre right to right wing - a so-called counter to the LNP's hard right to extremist right positioning.

The 'progressives' are only slightly authoritarian - a so-called counter to the most authoritarian peacetime government we have ever had.

If the ABC is to be truly balanced it needs to also incorporate the politics of the centre-left greens and so move left to be centre right and not right wing.
It would also need to incorporate the plethora of libertarian senators including the greens and be waaaayyyy more 'so-called' progressive.

If the ABC was indeed balanced, Abbott would get a much worse go since he is right out on the right wing ledge looking down at the fascist abyss.

All that said, I think Abbott has a problem with Putin for the only reason is Putin is beaten Abbott to the political positioning that he wants to hold; and Abbott is a competitive kinda guy.

What about the interest on the LNP debt? Does that count as well?And wasted a further 1.2 billion operating them when it can be done on shore for a tenth of the price.Who cares what the ALP think. My view is they both are useless and lie through their teeth.

I am commenting on overspending.Was it 21% that did not trouble themselves with a correct vote last time around.

21% and growing.

Once we turn our backs on the system we become like Italy and Greece.

That too is freedom of choice.
All things 'weight' should bell curve.

On that basis, 'masses of people' is well overblown.

From the curve, 13.6% of the population should be overweight, 2.14% obese, and 0.13% morbidly obese.

Last I heard, 60% of my countrymen are fat or obese. Using some maths in an empirical way, 8 out of 10 fat people are fat because they eat too much and are too lazy and/or undisciplined to either physically work or moderate their intake.

That leaves 2 out of 10 fat people.

Some will be fat because nature intended it to be that way and some because they have inherent problems.
It would appear to me the author has inherent problems.
The environment is not making people fat unless the environment is forcibly opening your mouth and tipping food down it.
On countercurrents.org, I just read something about an Indian who purchased 32 acres and returned it to forest.

On the ennui, we do not have to have manicured grass and rose bushes. We can have something else like the above Indian.

I know this because I followed the herd for years and looked at my green dessert (fertilized and well poisoned grass) daily and wondered if there was anything more. It turns out growing stuff is infectious. Connecting with dirt and getting chook pooh under your fingernails can lead to a complete alternative if one lets oneself go. Once growing food enters into it, food obsession wanes, or at least it did for me. 

So Gerard, what I am blathering about is I think you are focussing on the effect. The cause is we have disconnected ourselves with our food supply. Once you re-connect, food becomes something you eat and not worship.

I only need to eat half of the silver beet from my garden because it has twice the nutrient in it when compared to the two week old, heavily gased version that appears on the supermarket shelf. That then leads to portion size. We used to eat less food but then again, it wasn't as gutless as the mush we eat today so we did not need to.

So, I disagree with the market being the sole problem. It is the market but it also us who have been mesmerized by it.

It only takes a weekend of reading and planning to break its spell.
Class and Dignity?

Clearly you are not a asbestosis victim.

How short peoples memories are.Also unprofitable farmers of which a healthy number are.My observation is those champions of the free market do everything they can to make sure their market is anything but free.No, the market will fix it.
The market fixes everything.

Just follow your own history of comment and you will find your own answer.
Hi True Liberal,
Political Compass has a good description of this.

It has a two axis (Cartesian plane) to show left / right and libertarian / authoritarian.

It helped me to make sense of it and why our hard right LNP can be 'Stalinist' authoritarian.

Exactly.

Its a variation the all too common illusion of choice.

Whistle blowers can still 'choose' to inform. You would have to be an idiot if you did though.Some of us were moved out err sorry, choose to become consultants in the Hawke/Keating/Howard neo-liberalism drive.

We, or at least me, are now competing with a Vietnamese person with a computer and the internet who is charging out at a fifth of my rate.

Perhaps at age 50 I can go and get the relevant engineering degree and apply to your wife who will completely ignore me because by that time, I will 55 which is 20 years too old.

They can pay less.

My comment was highlighting sometimes there is no hassle.
One simply contracts overseas.
Architects are being replaced by software.

An Architect is now 5 times more productive then his or her 1950's counterpart.
There is a big push to coordinate CAD with builders co-ordination software. Once that happens the co-ordination part of the Architects (and builders) function will be lost to software.

An Architect will one day design on butter paper, feed it into a machine that will produce the first rough drafts to be corrected and then be re-fed into the machine for the next stage.

An architect will probably do the work of 10 at that stage and his right hand man, the draftsman will be extinct. This is significant as the better Architects were once draftsman - its a learning process yet to be bettered.

Once the chain is broken, a human Architect will be useless within two generations so one may as well transfer it all to a machine.

I am winding down for retirement and have researched it. Part of it is to consider oneself and that which provides most pleasure and contentment.

Consequently, I have started to shift away from technology. There was a beer advert not that long ago that went on about hands - handmade, handover, hand me a spanner, etc., etc. and its quite right. The greatest pleasure for me is the use of hands and to hold aloft that which I have done which means hand made, hand tools, hand drawn (art), calculation by hand (slide rule, standard maths table), etc.

I closed off Excel VBA earlier this year and will probably never run it again. My phone plan ran out in February and I do not miss it. My 30 year old dining table is currently being restored by me, have hand tools used in the repair of its timber jointing, will be hand filled, be hand sanded to get into all nooks and crannies, hand varnished, and my hands will run over it during its final inspection as I appreciably nod to myself for a job well done. It will last at least another 30 years.

This 2nd revolution as you put it is about removing the creative input and loving attention of hands and in some cases minds. I see significant numbers of humans becoming unfulfilled zombies. Hopefully the 'interesting times' occur after I die.A system can easily be devised where tax returns are not needed fro the average wage and salary earner.

The actual answer you were searching for is 30% of us are needed to satisfy all wants. Another 40% for all needs which means the rest have concocted employment - about 25% of us.

Whilst some accountants are in the needs category, some are also employed to satisfy the tasks that have no real meaning other then that being invented by government.
Accountants fall into the same category of those training providers that are involved in providing mind numbing professional development training or the OH&amp;S training that is required annually but really only need be done once in a lifetime.It depends on the definition of robot.
I would say we already have robots servicing robots.

I once repaired electronic circuitry to component level.
I was replaced by diagnostic software in 2001.

On resigning after declining the 'training' to swap out circuit boards, I recall mumbling something about robots and trained monkeys.

Nothing has altered in the subsequent 13 years that alters my view that this minimally trained person is robotic as they merely replace the part the machine tells them to.
8) pretty much every piece of decent technical writing involves graphs and figures. They not only are worth a thousand words but demonstrate that the prose contains a reasonable description and or conclusion to the known parameters.


Most importantly, when I see people question the concept of graphs and figures, it indicates to me they only read opinionated tosh that has its basis in nothing. Consequently they find this referencing thing far to restrictive since its harder to make it up as you go along. Heaven forbid what would happen if a comparison function was overlaid on the graph, complete with its mathematical description (equation).

Following on from that, our Treasurers (state and federal) should probably never attend a TV interview without having relevant charts and tables on hand to reference whilst speaking. Professional conference speakers speak to  charts and tables and so should our elected reps.

I have never heard the G20 conclude and broadcast words to the effect that 'we will pursue globalization and the neo-liberal agenda and ensure that the siphoning of public monies into the private hands of the 0.1% will continue'

Whilst meetings and agreements go on all the time, they should at least be in concert with election platforms of the governments of the nations that make the agreements.Quite true.

On the racing front, horses are put down regularly over the course of the entire calendar.

Dogs (greyhounds) are bred and if they do not learn to quickly chase the lure then they go as well.

This is just people being people. That is, they (we) live in this idealized world and the Melbourne Cup is only seen as shiny, fit horses being ridden by small fit people dressed in silk. Glamour, glitz and gleen. We do not care for what lays behind the curtain.

Then, in our most hypocritical best, we eat them or in the case of horses, feed them to our pet dogs.

Further, I am typing this on an computer so therefore titanium was mined to produce hafnium. Titanium mining murders plenty, especially when it comes from Kenya.

So, its a predatory pyramid and we sit atop. 

In summary, if someone does not like watching horses die in horse racing then don't buy electronic gadgetry as the chain of gadgetry production is a far bigger killer.




I noted on the TV show, the drum yesterday, the Sydney Institute woman highlighted the concept that there is only 95% certainty of the predictions.

I also noted she was sitting in a TV studio that would have had lighting and structural beams above her head. Lucky for her, Structural Engineers provide her with something a great deal better then 95% certainty that the structure will stay up. At the time I was thinking we should have special 95% assured structure just for her.

My bet is she would live outdoors.

Further, I note Parliament took umbrage at Foreign Fighters and so created a bill. Foreign fighters are 0.0003% of us and given an opposition of normal policing, would cause less carnage then the annual road toll.

I am amazed how a 5% possibility/probability can be washed aside in some things yet ratios of a ten thousandth of that are crucially important in others.Shorten needs to grab Henry, ask him to provide a quick revision on his Tax report by including GST.

Then take that to the election as a platform on the priviso that:
Henry comes back and does a proper job

and.... 

all reforms will be implemented in the time frame and order as dictated by the recommendations.

I am all for tax reform as laid down by someone who knows.

I am not for a hard right politician (Abbott) cherry picking taxation reform or a right wing politician (Shorten) bleating popularist no responses.

As Abbott has shown, screaming NO long and loud works. It does nothing for the country though.Yeah right.
If someone who has received civil decoration for services to his area of specialization does not do it for you then fine.

I do not particularly care.

As long as its not a politician or a right or left wing ideologue.SteveF,
I do not know how old you are but my recollection from the 80's was turn up, be joyously met by a senior person whilst having some given tool thrust into your hand and spend the next few hours mucking around yet producing some desired outcome.

Today it is meet with the manager in their office before being whisked away to an induction whence you get a ream of forms to fill in. You subsequently might get a call depending and how you present on paper.

As with most things, the problem goes all the way to the control freak at the top, sucking the joy of everything they touch as they seek to micro manage everything and everybody through their instigation of the regime of claustrophobic compliance.

Some of us find this more off putting then the shallow American Media (which is also now Australian Media since the same person heads up both industries).I started to let my volunteering efforts lapse in 2004.

In 2003 I was fine.
In 2004 I needed a police check to do the same thing... which I refused.

I viewed this as an introduction of compliance based control freakery and 10 years on, my suspicions have been shown to be correct.
You have highlighted how the compliance dictating control freaks control your logistical supplies which does nothing but make it harder.
Anyway, by 2010 all my volunteer efforts were extinguished as the control freaks gradually sucked the joy out of it all.
I do not even donate blood anymore.

They have done it in workplaces as well. I used to be in industry associations but the compliance based so called professional development schemes have seen me let memberships lapse over time.

I think the problem is this notion that people are just robotic drones that run around and do authorized and easily measured activities so a manager can tick a box on his monthly report form that satisfied any future but improbable audit.

I read this proposed scheme is even more unwanted micro management.You are probably correct.

Unless a person is 'safe in their own skin' then their are less likely to help others.

30 years ago, many of us had a job for life. Today those jobs are all but gone. With most of us being sackable within the month, we are not 'safe in our own skin'. We are hoarding for the possible devastation which is long term job loss.
Volunteering used to be pitching in with whatever feeble input you could provide. All comers were gleefully accepted.

George, I think you are wanting a level of expertise that comes by paying people.That sounds like conscription accept of course, people will 'choose' to do it.  Especially when youth payments are cut to 6 months a year.Your last sentence is most pertinent.

Almost all policy and leaderships decisions are based on the idea that economy trumps society. That is, we live in an economy and not a society.

Rhetoric however is the other way around. 

Volunteering is the canary in the coal mine. Its lack on interest is a symptom of the wider problem."Most of all, bring the fun back into being a volunteer.'

Exactly.

They just do not get it.
That's not the case with my two adult (just) children.

They see pride as advertised nationalism - like 'Team Australia'.

Being educated, they know of countless historical examples of nationalism being used to bludgeon a population into place.
Additionally, they have been brought up in an economy rather then a society.

Back to team Australia, they do not like the self appointed captain.

Back to economy, they do not like how tenuous their employment is and they do not like how the institutions we as parents speak of, are now broken.

In summary, they lack the pride you speak of not because of how the place started but because of how it has been trashed over the course of their lifetime.Thing that got me was one mans opinion coupled with a seemly compelling speech swayed the room to vote down carbon.

Now, I am sure Robb did his homework but he is a long, long way from an expert.

I would prefer my policy to be evidenced based with those who make it their life's work to have considerable input.

Whether depression was part of it or not, we have second rate decision making producing second rate policy.I know 6 people who are worth more then 8 figures.

All have or had successful businesses.

One inherited 1.1 million in 1970 and through a combination or work and luck is now worth more then 9 figures. He has government minister mobile numbers in his phone and makes sure he has his input on policy direction that pertains to him.

Two had businesses in protected industries.

One was twiddling his thumbs and an international manufacturer knocked his door out of the blue. He has looked after this manufacturer very well and has profited greatly.

One was a farmer and played the tax and subsidy regime for all its worth.

One was what most people would identify with being entirely self made, and in an honourable industry.

The problem I have with your comment GR is twofold.
One is 'not accept any responsibility for anything in their lives'. That's an absolute statement and so is almost definitely wrong. Pretty much everybody takes some responsibility to some extent.

Two is evidence to me suggests in running your several businesses you are very likely to have had a leg up by someone at some point. That leads to plenty have tried and failed. Usually its due to not getting the leg up that the lucky people get.

I think a bit of empathy for the 80% that try and do not do so well is in order.

A good pair of comments.

Now, if you can only summarize that lot into a three word slogan so the conservatives can understand.....The New Matilda has a current article about conservatives.

Stated as part of the stereotypical conservative profile is fear of change.

Conservative political parties play to that.

I would think a conservative should be very, very frightened. Those nasty people on the other side are one day going to get their hands on these laws and could turn them into anything. Heck, one of them could even be Lee Rhiannon as you mention.

In fact, I  would think a conservative should be more frightened of Lee Rhiannon then ISIS.

That out of the way, I am looking forward to this Senators term of office. By definition, a libertarian is someone who lets people have a free run which is therefore unpredictable. Wont that be interesting when pitted against our authoritarian LNP and ALP.'Libertarians seek to maximize autonomy and freedom of choice, emphasizing political freedom, voluntary association and the primacy of individual judgment'

Free run was perhaps not my best choice of words.

Over time I have noticed an increase in authoritarianism from our government.
I also note the commentary I read from 'political science' supports that as well. 
It seems 11/09/2001 was the excuse.

I hope the senator is does not fall victim as you say. We need senators who are not party hacks and can think it through.Political science measurements can be ruby.

The measurements at present show this government to be the most authoritarian since the Vietnam war.

If you do not see this mob as authoritarian then you have quite a high threshold of pain.'If the police need to enter my property in order to access or observe the neighbours because they legitimately believe they intend to do harm then they just need to ask'

Ok, I do not want the police, or anyone else on my property.
Now what?McMahon was the worst and should never have been elected.

That liberal government went one term too long as labor were ready by 1969.

Fraser never did anything but we needed to wait for labor to get their act together. His term was just right.

Hewson was a better option then keating but the fightback election was lost. An error on the electorates part.

Howard ran for two terms too long. He was dangerous in the end with his clinging on to the American war machine. Had he rightfully lost in 2004, Rudd/Gaillard/Rudd would never have happened. Another error from the electorate.

Anyway, 2007 and was the only intelligent option.

2010 was the election of no choice as was 2013.

We are now very badly governed and have been since Howards last term.

Since children overboard we have been badly governed was is one rung up from very badly governed.

We currently have a Prime Minster almost as bad as McMahon. This is a pity as the LNP have some liberals (as opposed to conservatives) in their ranks who would probably do a reasonable job.

Labor will not be ready again until Shorten goes and they find a direction. Hopefully in 2017 but I suspect Shorten needs to lose first so its 2020.
I also suspect another women will be the next labor Prime minister and she will benefit from Gillard's ground breaking tenure.

Sorry, elected by his party.


I stand corrected.'this continent could easily support 50,000,000 if it was planned.'

I am yet to read a report that includes environmental impact and supports 50 million.

Most come in between 8 an 12 million with 12 million assuming on trend technological advancement.
You are right Dan.

I am a boomer and have lived in a golden age.

Childhood diseases were beaten.
My schooling was the closest it ever came to being a proper education - not the dumbed down farce it is today.
My youth was in a time when the mix between environmental  degradation and human development was still favouring the environment.
The hippies gave me a positive social change never matched in previous history.
My tertiary education was almost free.
A house was something I could buy and not spend my adult life paying for it.
My retirement is such that I get one.

From my perspective, that list is still too hard. Included in it should be a 20 hour work week and some sort of natural migration to self expression through the arts.
In short, those that came after me should have it easier and they do not.

A boomer complaining otherwise is not looking at the complete picture.
I took his point as it does not automatically follow that.....

The part where he falls over is,
"We consume a whole lot more energy than anyone else and we need to either cut back on consumption (which isn't realistic)".

It is going to have to be realistic because we are running out of resources to use.A true measure would include land mass as well as population, exporting industry (that is giving over stuff for someone else to burn), GDP per capita as well as a bunch of other related rates of measure.

One thing is for certain, an absolute per country measure is irrelevant.You are right of course Steve.


You and I can manage our daily affairs without such utterances but then again, we are not 'honourable' - just ordinary.On a scale of -10 equals communist and +10 equals Ayn Rand, then a conservative sits at +8.

When an conservative labels a lefty they are labelling anyone to the left of +8.

I would hope we never have a conservative with a regular spot in the same way socialists do not get a gig. Equally, if the ABC is to be impartial, it cannot have a panel of +8 right wingers.Pure Mathematics is probably the most difficult discipline there is.

You are suggesting it be taught in TAFE.
When my kids were 3 and 5 I too had to be deliberately even handed to them.

Now they are adults, they received unequal attention and parental advice based on need.

Maybe News corp is generally in the gutter and deserves more criticism.
I do not recall the ABC being done for phone hacking.Yes.

Physicists revere Newton. Its his laws that we memorize, not his bible.

Further, we pay him full respect. We credit him with the formulation, not a god or a religion.I am still mourning good ol' Blaise.

We only had him for 39 years and he wasted too much of his time on the fairy god father.

His Mathematical and Physical Law achievements were immense. If only he was not side-tracked, we would probably be 50 years more technologically advanced then we are today.An elderly couple was leaving north queensland due to cyclone.

A TV journo did a roadside VoxPop on exit and asked if they were worried.

Response, we pray to God our house is not damaged.

My wife and I looked at each other and laughed. Is it not god who brought the cyclone to north queensland?

Sometimes life would be easier it one was bereft of logical thought.Because Christianity has served its purpose.

Its time to move on the next philosophy as Christianity is now holding us back.Yes.

A slogan is a short repetitive phrase using used for advertising.

It seems people are so wrapped up in their own ability to refine language that comments are now slogans.
Its a false alternative.

Two other perfectly viable options are like but leave and dislike but stay.

A simple everyday example is plenty cannot stand their work but 'choose' to stay. In fact the system ensures they select that 'choice' by making it economic suicide to leave without further satisfying work to go to. And, as we are reminded here often, there is no onus on the employer whatsoever to provide for interesting work - its a function of profit only.

So false alternative and hypocritical.

That said, you are correct in saying the affected people are flawed. They should be above patriotism as that is for 7 year olds and be above offense as that is for 'centre of the universe' types.The bogans can play beer games.

Since it comes in 4.5% alcohol varieties, games can last for a hour or so before they fall over themselves.

Proper and tasty beverages come at higher potency and so require some self restraint in their consumption if full enjoyment is to be gained.

Not the full answer because some people actually like a beer or two after a hot day because its relaxing. Never the less, I think the bogan element is most of the sales so I am claiming to be mostly correct.Gerard,
Mature people who have grown through life come to understand that its not so much where you go in life but its how you get there that counts.

My observation has been that outcomes based people do not care how the result is achieved nor do they bother to contemplate all factors - they cherry pick two or three that suits them and claim they are the overriding issues so everything else can be ignored.

Another aspect is your last sentence presumes the reader has empathy. I think your mistake is you have assumed others have it as well.You are correct that is a major difference.

However, if we:
went and got them from source camps so using UNHCR (the professionals) assessments
had an inhospitable holding pen in the North West for those who arrive uninvited in an effort to convince them to go back to the camp and follow process.
processed them on shore with processing only involving being medically cleared and having a 5000 word English vocabulary - no security check, the UNHCR has already done it

We could then directly regulate numbers, increase the likelihood of them participating, and do the whole thing for a quarter of the cost. Most importantly we could get it off the front page, take some of the hate out of society, and get politicians back to focussing on some real issues that affect us in our daily lives.

An example is this Burqua thing. I have never met anyone with a burqua. I doubt if I ever will. I simply don't care. 
Conversely millions of us live in poverty. I walk over half a dozen of these people every time I go to the city and I would that to be fixed.One
Most people cannot live rural and work urban.
The type of work they do does not suit.

Two
We need people to buy useless junk. It employs about 40% of us.


The problem with your old fashioned but eminently sensible outlook is the Ponzi scheme, err sorry, modern economy, cannot survive if too many are sensible/careful with their money.

That said, I work in construction. 10 years ago I could interpret the 'Deemed to Comply' sections of Standards and Codes and do the engineering aspects of a single story house - footings, beams, bracing etc.

Now, I can't do that even though the deemed to comply parts are still in the standards. You need a profession engineer and a grand of spare cash to do what I did for a few hundred dollars. That's structure but there is also stormwater and code compliance. Add them up and government spends about 4 grand for you on consultants that were not needed 10 years ago. 

Part of your eminently sensible outlook is government also conspires against us and forces us to buy good and services that are not required.I would be surprised if 'most' people do place money as high as you.

From polling and surveys we know conservatives place the economy and financial matters well above anything else. Something like 75% of conservative respondents say economy is king.

For non-conservatives, that is everything else bar right wing and hard right wing, the economy does not come first and social aspects rise above economic for about 70% of respondents.

Now that is a roughly even divide and when you consider the LNP garnered 44% of the vote last time around, I would contest your claim of most. I would think its likely to be even but if I were to put some blinkers on I could easily say most prefer for the ANU to balance all factors when making the decision.
'From polling and surveys we know that self proclaimed "progressives " place taxpayer handouts well above anything else !
Hypocritically, still placing money above all else , just that it is other peoples money that they prefer to covet and with no strings attached !'

That's way over the top.

Some might be impressed with your ability to forcefully state your case in un-ambiguous language. 
Me? I think you have diverged from a reasonable assessment by catastrophically overblowing your account so therefore you have nothing useful to add.ANU ranks 45 in the world.

With your astute critique, you have just brought down the entire tertiary education sector.

Congratulations.If logic is the most important then why do you chose to break it?

Because you are versed in the arts and are a 'Tory Lawyer' then it does not automatically follow that others are the same.

In the days of wooden golf clubs I played off a handicap of 4 and was an engineer. It does not then follow that most engineers are in the top 3% of amateur golf.

Besides that, logic should be part of the syllabus. Formal logic is part of maths and it morphs over to English should critical thinking ever be formally taught. So, its embedded in the three R's if those R's are to be taught comprehensively as they were two hundred years ago.My research is the following subjects need to be compulsory:
English
-------- 
This one subject involves following the 3000 year long historical conversation of western thought. Today we have busted this apart into English, history, geography, commerce (economics). It needs to be put back together to be a coherent topic.

Science
---------
Maths is embedded into physics and chemistry and biology is an adjunct yet still integral. There is no such thing as maths at school, its science and maths is scientific grammar.

Art
----
Here is dance, music, graphic art and sport. Its all body movement and manual skill.



So, the systems first priority is to produce rounded people. That mentioned above is the bare minimum. Not included are things like debating, chess, sculpture,.....
Just the three R's blends to this idiotic competency based tickbox style training where school becomes a long list of tasks and concepts that are presented in some semi arbitrary order called pedagogy. The runs are on the board. It doesn't work.



I think it unusual that there is a handwriting standard.

As a calligrapher, I know no two hands are the same and each calligrapher has a preferable script which is due to ease of writing. Ease of writing is partly due to hand mechanics. Also, my foundation hand or copperplate is not the same as everyone else.

Teach them how to form letters and an initial script. After a few years using the mandatory script, teach them acceptable ways to butcher it but still be within the bounds of legibility.

In all reality, kids should be writing using a non-specialist shorthand such as Kwikscript or the like. 
We still use iron age lettering systems but do not use flint axes anymore.

Very Curious.I have spend a lot of time finding out what they did to me.

I know I was not educated but schooled - like a fish.
I was good at being schooled and was generally in the top few in my advanced classes.
Now in my 50's, I spend my evenings educating myself.

My research on this topic is a school leaver ought be able to go on and read the western cannon. That, and only that, is the required measure. 
At its core, this is a few hundred 'great books'. In practice, its the original work for the academic; but in English and with commentary for the layman. So Homer in Greek for the academic but in English with commentary for the layman.

For the academic it is 250 or so works but the layman can be happy with one a year over a lifetime. 

For a child, they need to learn how to read a book. Mortimer Adler has a book about this. They can tackle books about great books so maybe not Franklin's autobiography but a third party book about it. It takes a good seven years to learn how to read a book.


The listing of great books includes the maths and sciences so they are covered. A child should be able to leave school having tackled enough of these third party books (and a few of the proper books after age 14) to understand the course of western history. Eastern history is another topic and the school child does not have time. Western history is already an ambitious ask.

Annoyingly to atheists, the western cannon includes the old testament. It should be read, not as a book of worship but as part of the 3000 year long conversation that is western history.

Most importantly, the aim of schooling is not to produce 'job ready' human beings. It is to produce people capable of independent thought. Deriving from that are people capable of concentration and self discipline and therefore employment.

Having said all that, there is not an onus on an adult to go on and read the selected parts of the cannon. The issue is they should be able to if they want...and at the moment they (we) cannot.

Lastly, such a process does not dissect subjects. English, History/Social Science are taught as one. So is maths and science. As is music, art, dance, and sport. So, three subjects and all are compulsorily. The split is due to the differing grammar of each. 

The part I am yet to form concrete thoughts on is examination. I know end of year exams are a stupid waste of time - ok for schooling, not ok for education. I suspect proper examination is a mix of assignment, small exam both written and oral, and practical demonstration.

With that, my conclusion is this LNP instigated effort is yet another dud.
What if education and learning are not the same thing?

What if data consumption was to align with learning and wisdom to education.

What if human movement and human interaction was education and communication/personality technique was learning.

Are we then over-educated?Occasional Letter Number 1 - searchable on the internet.

We know its been happening since 1906.A hundred years ago, school kids could read 'Uncle Tom's Cabin' but now its a tough text at early Uni.

The Americans kept the same Army entrance exam for over 60 years and have a direct correlation of the dumbing down from 1900 to 1965. Pass rates declined yet schooling intensity had gone up.

As for maths and science, yes, its a complete joke. Fred cannot comprehend the mol concept so the whole country waits for Fred to catch up.
Maybe Fred needs to move aside and be helped individually but not at the expense of everyone else.
Oh Rubbish!

There has been no left in Australia since Hayden positioned the ALP to win the drovers dog election.

If you speak about independent thought then this LNP is one of the most authoritarian democratically elected governments on the globe. 
Look that up if you like - I am open to you contesting my statements.

Now, to pluck the sense out of your comment, yes, schools get you to do some lame brained activities.

In the 60's I was doing projects on sheep yet nobody mentioned that these hooved animals have stuffed up our fragile soils. Nobody mentioned the top soil that eventually blows from their desecrated grazing paddocks into the oceans has stuffed up fish stocks. Nobody mentioned that like countries had completely different ocean ecology. Need I remind you that the late 60's was Menzies, Menzies and more Menzies - and that glorified Ram on the one bob bit.Peak education was said to be in 1990 or 1991.

I would think go straight back 24 years and leave it alone for a while.The narrative I just read indicated it took a dive with Rudd and Abbott has seen it decline some more.

I get that you do not like your man being mentioned more often...and perhaps the ABC should do something about that since their stupid fairness charter has balance of word counts.

The bit I do not get with your comment is why you lurch straight to communism as a alternative to democracy. I would have though technocracy and all its derivatives would be the obvious alternative but perhaps not....

Only 5 years ago, the choice was between centre right and right. 
Its now right and far right.

My understanding is most Australians are centrist. 
If a Paul Keating government were to reappear but without ties to the union movement, it would be a 10 term government. This was the allure of Turnbull - centrist but no unions. 

The problem is both party's are too right wing and too authoritarian so they do not waste anytime with 'people' as they do not have the support anyway.

I do not see a bill of rights working because Americans get trampled on daily. History shows the way this actually changes is when the populace has the same weaponry as government. Under those circumstances the government loses its stick. The last time the weaponry balance was even was in the late 1800's. The Gatling gun was when the balance tipped.I am not sure this is that hard...

Dear Sir/Madam,
I am interested in employment as a truck driver, blah, blah, blah.

Yours faithfully,
sdrawkcaB

PS. Please be aware I suffer from epilepsy and may be a drain on your insurance. I mention this as I would not want to be seeking employment under false pretences.





Copy that 20 times per month and replace truck driver with what ever. The blah, blah, blah can remain the same if you write it carefully. Make sure your local politician (state and federal) and local council gets an application each month.'Talk of Team Australia is precisely un-Australian: careless, stupid, repressive talk that has no place here. My family has been in this country for more than two centuries, coming as convicts, and falling at Gallipoli. As among the oldest of white Australia, I can say that Tony Abbott does not speak for us. Human rights and mutual respect are our values.'

I served for 9 years.

He does not speak for me either.Sending up our politicians is what we do.

The question to me is, why is there not a Abbott parody at present?
Its not as if they are short of material.

The closest thing we have is McAuliffe and I note any LNP rant is immediately followed by a same length and word count ALP rant.

That's not how it works.

The government gets the bake because they are in government.The indie news sites is where you will find a proper appraisal of Bishop.

Bishop is a poor foreign minister.
She kicked of as a disaster as she took it upon herself the be the diplomat.
Someone took her to the side and told her to get out of the way and let the experts do it.

She took that advice and that is the only smart decision she has made.

She is now so good at getting out of the way the Russians thought our foreign minister was a bloke.

We have had some good foreign ministers over the last 30 years and Bishop is not one of them.I agree.

The ABC would be better if it paired itself back to the organizational method and program commitment that produced people like...
O'Brien, Olle, Lynham.

The stocks of ABC jounos range from run of the mill to not too bad. There are no great journos.

4 corners once produced royal commission instigating shows. Its now 20 minutes of filler material and 20 minutes of journalism.

The only program running against the tide is Foreign Correspondent.Stopping the boats is an extremist policy.

Whilst the ABC might get guess commentators to talk it up, I would not be wanting to see my employees (ABC journos) positively spinning extremism.

Equivalently, we do not see ABC journos spinning favourably about nationalising industries or giving a leg up to the communists. 

Popular does not enter into it. A journo deals with fact and the facts from political science is this government is far right wing and holds extremist views in some areas - like boats.
So as a rational voice, a journo ought to be commentating on all of the evidence and not just that which the community wants to hear.And most who have a modicum of intelligence have made effort on get on top of the 'false alternative' logical fallacy by about age 12.

Then again, that is partly the point. News and comment should be free of logical fallacy and be from a solid basis of evidence and/or reasoning.
Its news and current affairs, not literature and poetry.

If the LNP wants to be re-elected, it will need to move significantly left to once again be a Liberal party.


I think most Australians are liberals and are horrified by the machinations of conservatives - they are just too extreme.

Muslim headwear should not even be an issue.

If security is a problem, ask them for help. Ask them for a solution and I have no doubt they will come to the party with some sort of alternative to face recognition.The data I have read on the topic indicates the community subsides smoking and the level of taxation is still not high enough.

On that basis, I am for further tax increases so smokers pay their own way and once that happens then yes, they can inject the stuff if they like.

I do not care.

You raise a good point about activities being revenue neutral.
The only aspect is we live in a society and not an economy so I would temper that with a caveat of 'is the activity constructive'.
If you engage in activities that are known to cause death by using the product as the manufacturer intended then I think most would leave it out of the constructive basket.There is more to it then just the health system.Maximum quality of life occurs at a wage of 5% more then the average.

Less then that means you go without and more then that you start worrying about your money.

So, you are right, its not necessarily greed unless you are using it to get 6 figure sums in which case it is greed since you are actually lowering your quality of life.

More importantly though is I think you have over stated freedom. As soon as two people live together, freedom starts to be compromised. When 22 million people live together, freedom is fleeting at best...unless anarchy is your thing.

Yes surprising isn't it.

The free market does not work but regulated markets do.

Is it now 900 years that we have known that for?Accept if I run my business at a loss for too many consecutive years I can be a guaranteed a visit fro the ATO.

I think you have up gross and net profit with loss.I left out the word mixed..so mixed up.

Yes on the losses however.... A colleague did it for three years and was paid a visit from the ATO.

If he went for another two they were going to use the levers available to them to close him down and then pursue him.

So yes, one incur initial losses but it gets a bit thin very quickly.Its a matter of neo liberal or Keynes.

Keynes worked and has runs on the board. Neo-liberalism has been a flop for about 90% of us.

I was encouraged to see Swan talk about Keynes on Q and A in a positive light.
I shook my head when Pyne scoffed at him.

The problem will start to improve when the world gets back to Keynes.'Engaged political thinkers don't change their vote too often. '

I disagree.

According to PoliticalCompass, I am centre left. The closest to me are the greens yet they do not necessarily get my vote.

This particular engaged political thinker will vote in self interest and national interest.

For example...
Keating had to go, he had been there too long.

Howard had to go once he used Children overboard as an excuse. Subsequent to children overboard, he only did damage - most notably the Iraq invasion where he, along with dubbya, contributed to the breeding of Islamic extremism. That will be with us for at least two generations and is the most far reaching blunder in my lifetime.

Rudd Gillard Rudd had to go, their infighting was noxious.

Abbott broke the Rudd Gillard Rudd cycle but needs to go at the next election - he is dangerous....more dangerous then Howard with a Senate majority.



I have never seen the greens as a viable government but they make good legislators (senators). Not as good as the democrats but better then the laberals.

As you can see, of the two right wing parties, I will flip between them as I see fit.We were governed by a kitchen cabinet and poor decisions were being made. That was after a year of nothing as Rudd commissioned a report on everything.

Rudd went and Gillard came in - undermined by her party but in.

A couple of years later, Mr Kitchen cabinet returned.

I saw all that as a recipe for bad government.

Supporting is a few initiatives that were less then optimal.
Also, the tax take is 3% too low in terms of GDP. The ALP should have fixed that but didn't or more to the point, couldn't. They also needed to act on the greatest moral issue of our times and didn't in any meaningful way.

So a poor government goes and a new one arrives.

I see this mob as temporary to be replaced with an ALP with their act together (hopefully).

Now, your examples are quite extreme. National interest to me is not Abbotts version of goodies and baddies or any other innane slogan he sprouts. Its in the interest of the nation. The interests of the nation is good government. We do not have it now and did not then. But, I note the ALP's introspection and so are hopeful a kick in the guts has them back and ready to govern in two years time. Of course the ALP still has its most senior minister on the backbench - Swann. When his abilities are properly used I will know they have put their factional stupidity behind them and are right to go."You let a website explain to you where you stand???'

No, but rather then arbitrarily claim something, I am prepared to use the only measurement tool I could find. Its accuracy may be coarse but its better then no measurement at all.

You see, the alternative is Sinodinos getting on Q and A and claiming his hard right wing party is centrist when it clearly is nothing of the sort.
Yes, I don't mind if parts of the ABC goes.

This charter of fairness they have makes them biased to the right.

There are plenty of independents now that are not constrained and can comment on both parties as the need arises and not keep score on word counts, airtime, and positive / negative stories.

For example, the drum was once unleashed and had some really good articles from some really good authors. They do not write here anymore but you can find them on indie sites (Jericho excluded). Another example is the ABC has some government approved and lame lie count on the LNP.

An indie organization has this at 50, all reasons given and evidence provided. I am waiting for the ABC to come out with a count on the opposition which magically has the same score.

I noted on Q and A last time Pyne when straight to ABC bias when the audience overwhelming was negative on youth unemployment - despite the audience bias being published at the beginning of the show. Bernadi did the same thing. An indie would take that as a reason to push harder because they are clearly hiding something - like the New Matilda with Abbott's daughters scholarship.
Well if you say its not caused by human activity then it must be true.And you have done the mathematics and physics/chemistry to read the science to the level of drawing an opinion equivalent to the PhD's that think oppositely to you?Its a shame this scientific issue has to go through politics for its solution.

My investigation on the matter shows targeted industry regulation is superior to all other measures. An example of targeted industry regulation is the incrementally more stringent California tailpipe emissions standards. Another is our MEPS system.

Unfortunately, discussion and implementation of these superior measures gets a backseat to chest thumping measures such as taxes and rebates. This article is also an example. Its a black and white survey of emission treading or nothing.I like your thinking.

China and India ought to emit the same as us.

A good way to drop that is to reduce a combined population of around 2.5 billion to about 50 million.

That will solve a quarter of the over population problem and a quarter of the emissions problem.

Now, all we need is someone to convince them voluntary genocide is a good idea.

While we are at it we could knock over 400 million yanks.As someone kinda in the centre, a conservative is a socialist but on the right hand side of the scale.

Just like socialism, conservatism does not work.

I say go you good thing Yank, conservatives need a good tirade and daily is fine by me.
