It'd would be easier to take this point seriously, and perhaps have reasonable discussion, if the Labor cheerleaders would acknowledge and criticise clearly and without equivocation that:

1. Labor established mandatory detention.

2. Labor's 'never-ever' policy is hardly discernable from the Liberals.

Lead on O Wise Labor Cheerleaders. Show us all how to avoid being a rusted on mob.I respect your clear and unequivocal criticism of Rudd. Kudos to you. I'm slightly inclined to quibble over your reading of mandatory detention but I'll let it pass.

I reiterate that I am not so respectful to those cheerleaders who refuse to criticise the policies of their favoured parties.There it is. Some people are just expletive out of luck. We don't like to face the reality but we can't save them all. We don't like to admit it to ourselves but we make cost benefit decisions on people's lives every day. My hot shower causes global warming and a kid in Sudan dies in a famine. The smart phone I'm using right now incorporates blood minerals.I invite you to refocus on my examples. Can you guarantee there are no blood minerals in your computer? That's a retorical question. It's almost certain that there is. Your consumption choices are aiding and rewarding warlords in Africa. The right thing to do would be to not reward them. You are making a cost-benefit trade-off with real human lives whether you want to acknowledge it or not.

Same with greenhouse emmissions. Your consumption choices are killing people whether you want to acknowledge it or not. 

Closer to the topic. Focusing on boat arrivals favors those we can see over those we can't. Its another trade-off. The right thing to do would be to offer the same assistance to those who would come here if they could to those that do come here.

Did I detect a personal insult, BTW? Am I to be damned by unfavorable comparison? No matter, I can take it. Truth told I miss the beatings I used to get in the Unleashed days.We'll have to agree to disagree. 

I commend you for minimising the cost side of the equation. I fear that's the best any of us rich people (by world standards) can do short of dying. But I still believe there is a trade off we each perform.

All well and good with me. Same old same old. Work. Sleep. Pick fights on the internet in the rest pauses.And of course hope/work for a better future. But everyone wants that. What to do how to do it is the tricky bit.

I just this very minute purchased a 'Save Dawes Point Community' T-Shirt. So I've done my bit for today.I live in hope, Alfie. Keep putting it out there, mate. My dream is that, following your example, people can learn to live without hate.Couldn't agree more. It's just that homo sapiens is so bad at it. I suppose that was my point.

You see it here all the time. Party cheerleaders of all persuasions complaining about party cheerleaders. Serial abusers complaining about being abused. Haters complaining about hate. Sexists complaining about sexism. Racists complaining about racism.

I will offer that I am more likely to own my negative behavior than most. Others tend to react with vigorous denial.Hmmm what to do today? Wake up. Drink coffee. Engage in nationalist flaming on The Drum.

It's a hobby, I suppose. 

So tell us how can we distinguish Abbott's crocodile tears (that he didn't actually cry) from real Dutch tearsWell addressing the substance I find it odd that when presented with a litany of racist attacks on Jews Gerard responds 'the disgust shown is not against Jews'. I wonder how threatening a five year old on a school bus with a cut throat registers disgust against Israel.

I think, however, its legitimate to nit-pick. Gerard raises many points, Peter has limited time, why not focus on the points that interest him? Pausing to acknowledge I find Israel's response disproportionate on this occasion I find the philosophical position that force should be equal odd. Surely the point of a war is superior force (within legal and ethical constraints).  You're supposed to win right?

Also nitpicking can highlight a carelessness or illogical bent that pervades the commentor's thinking generally.

A lot European countries have national device and dual nationals are expected to serve.Just like that? Denmark forms a new party and we can forget another racist and nationalist party is still popular. Never realized fighting racism was so easy. Where do I sign up?To be fair the Law Society Practice Book doesn't have a lot of detail on 18D. And 'ratio decidendi' is a really far-out concept that only a few QCs understand.MDG I tried to quote part of the decision but it didn't get up (I think because I accused Andrew Bolt of a ------- --- or maybe because I was too mean to Pete).

Anyway it seems the fact that untruths and "deliberate distortions" were used was decisive. If Bolt had been accurate he wouldn't have had a problem. If he'd made an honest mistake he'd be fine.

So here are my problems:

1. We have people arguing the principal that potentially telling hurtful vicious lies about someone should be legal.

2. Sounding off with great confidence about matters and concepts they are not familiar with.

3. Defending someone who committed distortions by committing further distortions and accusing someone else of distortions who's basically got it right.I'll try again, Terry. Please note where "provactive language appears in relation to 'errors of fact' and 'willful distortions. From the judge himself:

The
 reasons for that conclusion have to do with the manner in which the articles were written, including that they contained errors of fact, distortions of the truth and inflammatory and provocative languageI'm not mick. I've never once read one of his pieces.Zing can you tell me what Carlton said that was racist?Come on, Zing! You can do better than that. Please tel me what racist thing Carlton said in the article or the forum. Please quote it.

The fact that you didn't even try speaks volumes.Why will you not make a stand? Why to you obsuscate and twist and turn and run?

The Herald may have found his abuse (made on his own twitter account) unreasonable. It did not find him racist. It did find the accompanying cartoon racist. I believe your slippery chsnge of subject here to be quiet cowardly.

Don't make up excuses. I'm certain the mids will let the racism through if you spell out you are quoting Carlton and why. The real reason you are not quoting is because he doesn't single Israel out and he doesn't say anything racist.

Having played fast and lose with reality you then presume to lecture me about how to deal with it.Who are you addressing, Scott. Perhaps it would help Zing if I pointed out Carlton accuses Hamas of war crimes in the same article. Singling out?Alfie I only say this because you brought it up but I think you're a Liberal troll. Because your opinion is too conformist. I don't think you've ever shared a thought that was not a head office Liberal talking point, on message or upbeat about Liberal electoral chances.

Dead set, mate! If you don't want people thinking you're a Liberal Party troll (I prefer sock-puppet but I'll stick with your term) you've got come up with some thoughts of your own. You'll get away with it here because of the balance charter. They don't at the Guardian and they're more falutin over there so you need to do better. You've gotta contribute your own or interesting ideas there. They're also harder on abuse, so I suspect you're falling foul there too. I don't think you're aware of how aggressive you come across.

Once more for emphasis: people (including me) think you're a sock puppet because (if you're not) you do a very good impression of one.

I can tell D-N-H-F was given short shrift when he tried his thing over there. They're a lot more discriminating.Also I'm a bit concerned about your sense of entitlement. The Guardian's website is it private property. I think you need to respect their rules and boundaries. If they don't like you well then you've just gotta lump it.

It's a big internet, Alfie. Plenty of space for you to get your opinion out there. The Guardian can't to anything about that.

To paraphrase Nassim Nicholas Taleb: the internet is a democracy, individual parts of it are not.Cookie it's an intriguing idea and I'm keen to learn more. Can you please point me to a few histories that blame the poor for the Great War.Sorry I think you've changed the subject. I was wanting some histories that blame the poor. All the ones I've seen blame the rich.

Off the top of my head The Guns of August and Carylon's The Great War particularly blame the Kaiser and the Prussian nobility. The former mercilessly lampoons 'great men' on both sides. Please can I have some examples of histories written by the rich that blame the poor.It often loses its subtlety in translation. I believe: "war is the continuation of political discourse intermingled with other means" is closer to his meaning. I may be wrong but your insertion of 'mere' is an embellishment and not a word Clauswitz used. 

It's also a highly debatable idea. Its not the truism smug cynics would have us believe.Racism is either acceptable or its not. 'Yes but' or even plain 'but' doesn't cut it.I think you're on dangerous ground, Andrew. I try not to think in terms of lesser and superior. Perhaps right and wrong. Fine distinction perhaps.

Anyway the case in point is not about culture. It is about a racist characterture published by the Herald. Saying Jews are of a more comical or comically sinister appearance than others is definitely racism and definitely not on.Spare me the sophistry, v.  Why did they give him a big nose and fat lips, v?

Would you be cool if someone personified an African nation thus? Or Aborigines? Take it with the Herald anyway. They apologized and conceded it was racist.

Are you looking at this, Cookie? I wouldn't go so far as to say the left is racist. But gee it allows itself some extravagant double-think and free passes on matter.You think to much, Andrew. My wife is Peruvian. My brother's is Chinese. Cousins have married Indonesian, Phillipines, Laotians. I have a Swedish brother in law. A German brother in law.

An Italian aunt. An Italian cousin. A Dutch aunt. 

No approval or or encouragement required. We all just do what we want.But racist charactertures are racist, v. And the Herald published one. The fact that they did it while criticizing Israel's attack on Gaza is beside my point but rather dire to yours. At least some people are mixing humanitarian criticism and racism.I agree with you one hundred percent with regards to Roger. He wanted talk about something else. It wouldn't surprise me if he was part of a coordinated campaign.

I did not introduce the talking point. I responded to a 'yes but' that I found offensive. Perhaps I deserve to be condemned for following that off topic. But if the mods allow the divergence I suppose its only fair they allow a response. I was aware I was wondering off topic but outsourced my ethics to the mods (as I so often do unfortunately).

When I start jumping in at the first article of the day (no matter what it is) to say:

1. The Estonian president is stupid and mean, and

2. The people of Greenland are uneducated fools.

Then you can accuse me of introducing talking points.Talking points, James, talking points. Don't like the topic? Just derail it.

Derailing discussions is in our nature's because we're all convicts.Yo, Peter! If 50.1% of people put their heads in ovens...

I find Tory Boy's logic odd. Nothings settled, champ. Never! You believe in it you argue for it forever or you lose it.As far as I know the Chicago School and the Austrian School are in vigorous disagreement. To the point of hating each others guts.

So what's happening here again is that people are critiquing concepts they aren't familiar with. Particularly hph who has quote mined Hayek. Taken him totally out of context and thrown a meaning he did not intend. I would add that hph's critique of economics generally appliez also to his economic ruminations. They are equally prone to charges of belief system and therefore equally spurious, right?Meredith. Some advocation of the mining tax is barracking, some isn't. 

I for example think my advocacy of it is not barracking. But that doesn't intetest me at the moment. I'm interested to the point of obsession with barrackers having a go at rivals barrackers for barracking.Small quibble. I'm a testosterone driven narcisist who gets we're a society. Properly harnessed testosterone driven narcisisists can be socially helpful I think. Do good things to impress yourself, what? I've for example rescued drowning people with one eye on my heroic self-image.

On another point:

Confusing the economy with the budget is a bugbear of mine. Particularly when LNP cheerleaders (who think tbey are the font of all economic knowledge and wisdom) do it.1. Gittins isn't left wing. He's a dead set minimum market intervention economic rationalist.

2. Who do you think is buying all the ore we're digging up.

3. If you're getting spiked you're doing it wrong. I'm getting all kinds of crap up this week. In fact I wish they'd stop me. I'm embarrassing myself.SO, are you trying to say that harvey finds it hard to believe that Ravensclaw has probably never met a member of Socialist Alliance let alone often heard them declare, "flipping burgers is beneath my dignity"?

Is harvey insinuating Ravensclaw is making this up? Or that Ravensclaw is putting up a straw-man? Or that Ravensclaw is addtessing the non-problem (people don't want to work) in preference to the problem (there aren't enough jobs)?

Say what you mean and mean what you say right? I would never resort to satire or absurdist humor to make a point.

Most burgers aren't even flipped these days, by the way. The industrial producers have automated that process. Socialist Alliance would be all over that development, given how important Marxists find machines and automation as a driver of the business cycle.Truly you have identified one of the great problems of our time. 

It starts a trickle each morning. I walk to the station. A man walking his dog here. A woman tending her garden there. The trickle gathers into a bubbling brook by the time I reach the station. There they all are excitedly yabbering away. I step off the train in the city to a raging torrent in its cataract like walls.

I can't escape! It vexes me! The noise sets my ears ringing so that I can't sleep at night!

Please, you legiom members of Socialist Alliance! Just one day's respite! The frequency of your refrainl 'flipping burgers is beneath my dignity' is apt to send people crazy.Anyone who calls out a Labor cheerleader is a Liberal cheerleader. QED.I find it sometimes amusing, sometimes vexing that the same people who are amused then get angry when someone presents facts that don't suit them. And then assume that I vote Labor because I dared criticise their pro-Liberal stance. Or that I vote Liberal because I dared criticise their pro-Labor stance. People hate facts that don't suit so much so that they invent facts that do.

I try not to get angry at facts. 

I would suggest a lot of people care for two reasons:

The first I've already stated. That get angry that I criticise their own parties.

Second they expend a lot of effort here barracking for their own parties. Why bother if not to convince?Just a tip caroline. Antagonising the Australian people probably isn't a good way to get them to vote the way you want.I'm afraid Peter has a point. The iron ore market isn't them same thing as the oil market. Margin is a lot lower. There just aren't the buckets of money you get with oil.

The phenomenom you observe is more to do with the nature of the market than the saintly natures of Norwegians.I'm afraid you're wrong again, hph. Norway is more reliant on mineral extraction than us. It accounts for about 20% of their GDP. Most of this is oil. Mining accounted for about 10% of our, at the peak of the mining investment boom.

Which further suggests that Norwegian prosperity is more a case of dumb luck than strategy or the temperament of its people. Norway is facing similar problems to us because of this. Due to persistent high exchange rates manufacturers and tertiary processors (like timber milling) are moving offshore.

By the by primary production features prominently in Denmarks economy (oil again and agriculture). Much of Sweden's recent prosperity is also down to minerals. It possesses some of the highest quality iron ore deposits.There's no denying it, Ben. Our relationships with people who don't know we exist have never been stronger.We already have taken it up with them (via our archives and histories) and we know exactly why the praise was forthcoming.

At the time of the attack reports were starting to come through of Japanese abuse of Australian POWs. The praise of the Japanese sailors and elaborate funeral were PR exercises to try and get the Japanese to reciprocate and respect our POWs. Unfortunately it didn't work. It also backfired because the events were used for propaganda purposes in Japan.

Abbott should have known he was skating towards thin ice on this. In the context of the real wounds that exist in Australia and the region today he should have been more careful. His potted history was insufficient. I perceive that it was a major blunder.Dove, I think you'll find an Australian general had something to say too. But only for the reasons I suggest above. The Army was worried about Australian PoWs.You gotta getta smart phone Algernon. You'd be surprised at how many comments you can get in in gaps. One or two with your tea. One or two when someone is late to a meeting. A quick one while you're waiting for big spreadsheet to tick over. A few when you're traveling to an off site engagement.

None of this I'm waiting till 5 stuff.

I imagine high school teachers and academics might fire off a few between classes.

Who can concentrate on one thing the whole day? Everyone's doing it Algernon. Facebook. Personal calls. Forwarding jokes. Gossiping. Reading the news. 

My boss gets more hours out me than she pays for, just quietly.An excellent point re plans. But its not just the left. Hypocrisy and double think are the default settings for humans generally.I suppose I should point out again the extraordinary insensitivity of this trope. In the great war Australia had one of the highest military casualty rates. It inflicted decades of suffering that touched every town and every family. My great grandmother made weekly pilgrimages to the municipal memorial her brothers name was inscribed on for a long as she lived (and was mobile). This happened in my lifetime. As recently as the seventies a gassing victim lived in Concord hospital who spent his entire life in bath (for his skin wounds)

That you would so airily dismiss this immense suffering is flabbergasting. One casts around for reasons. Ignorance. Indifference.

Something else?

 In Second War fully one on seven Australians served in the forces. This again is amongst the highest of any country. At home Australians embraced the war effort. It was standard for young women to work two paid jobs and one volunteer. My still living grandfather bears lifelong scars from his service as an infantryman.

Australia's greatest prime minister (and example of the actual as opposed to feigned intelligence, humility and compassion that once prevailed in the Labor Party), Curtin, famously couldn't sleep for days due to the submarine threat posed to the returning AIF.


Again it amazes me how easily you set this aside.Wise LOL what R U trying to say about Helvi's contention that Australia did suffer in war?I'm a little confused about what this has to do with Helvi's point. Maybe make it simple for me. Connect the dots.

The man in the bath did not suffer because...

My great grandmother did not suffer because...

My grandfather did not suffer because...Still not getting it, I think. The point Helvi raised is that Australia did "suffer" from war.  

Are you agreeing? Are you disagreeing? What are you trying to say?The government did run a fear campaign including racist charactertures in WW2 on Japan's entry. It is to Curtin's credit that it didn't last long and was changed to something much more sensible. Charles Bean apparently had a lot to do with the change too.

The strength of a nation rests on the character of its people. Curtin said that. After the fear campaign was dropped.

The performance of Dutch soldiers in Bosnia springs to mind for some reason. Perhaps if they were a bit more warlike...The picture you're painting is odd. You say a GP will see 50 patients a day all seeking 'abnormalities'. Are you on the level here, ig? As far as I can see people present with symptoms and the doctor decides whether to order tests or not. 

I wish you'd defined abnormality better. It's not a very precise or (dare I say) scientific term. For example we expect a majority of tests to come back 'normal' but we still gain benefit by doing them. Pap smears for example (although it seems the intervals have been too close). Also STI testing. We want to control the spread. We need to test. We expect most tests to come back negative.

As a doctor would you recommend only symptomatic patients get gonorrhea, Chlamydia and syphilis tests?

Frankly, id, it amazes me that a doctor isn't across these concepts. Last year I had a battery of tests. Shoulder pain and a lump. Ultrasound.

Had a migraine that looked a lot like a stroke. CT scan. No abnormalities. MRI. No abnormalities. Doppler chartoid ultrasound. No abnormalities. Echo cardiogram. No abnormalities. Bloods. No abnormalities.

So there's six test. Zero % abnormalities. Are you saying I shouldn't have had them? Or perhaps I was a bit selfish going the doctor when my face sagged, I was temporarily blind and I couldn't walk or talk properly?

Also shouldn't you ethically look for a new job. How do you live with yourself when you take 98% of your income (subsidized by the taxpayer or not) for doing nothing. Is it fair to blame the suckers and not the charlatans?EMH, in my haste I iften make spelling mistakes. But  I do think most GPs would say 'nowadays' and not 'now days'.  I think that's your smoking gun.If it were feasible they'd be the first to sell it to us. 

You want to know an amazing fact about liquid petrol? It doesn't burn. It's true. It's also a big molecule so it doesn't slowly leak through containers.

Hydrogen does slowly leak through containers making it hard to store and transport. Its the smallest atom there us. Also if the storage ruptures you've got an instant explosive cloud. Unlike petrol which will only burn as fast it can vaporise.It's fascinating, isn't it? Nothing bad ever happens unless the US causes it.A big recession in the US drove down labor and land prices. Individual manufactures realized they could do it cheaper than China now. In fact they could all along, its just that China gave itself a leg-up with exchange rate manipulation. And let's not forget that a lot of process work is now automated.

There was no plan to 'bring' back manufacturing, just individuals responding to price signals.

So there you go. I can explain the phenomenon in free market terms.Cuba was making plans around sugar production in the 80s. Then its apparently rock solid buyer collapsed overnight in the early 90s. No one saw it coming. Who saw the China boom coming? Remember when it was inevitable that the Japanese economy would become bigger than the US? European stock markets reached record peaks on the very eve of the Great War.

We can't plan because we can't predict. There are just too many variables. The best we can do is equip systems and people with the flexibility and creativity to adapt to unseen changes.China and Russia can't project power in the same way as the US. Either your comparison is unfair or it's a tricky way of saying never project power.Not good enough. There has to be consequences. Anyone who took a bonus in say five years before the bailout has to hand it back. 

Also if we bail it, we own it. We break it up so its no longer too big to fail.Sleep under the bridge you built. Fly in the plane you repaired.

Skin in the game. Its a simple and ancient ethic.Make it so but also add the Swiss solution. Claw back bonuses.I pity the poor bankers. Poor regulation made them devise complex derivatives that they themselves didn't understand. It made them take stupid risks with other peoples savings. It really stuck in their craws that they got big bonuses and walked away without consequence or recourse.

What choice did they have?I expect you'd get rid of all the crooks and empty suits that collect bonuses on the back of dumb luck and stupid risks that hurt others but not them.Your comment is supremely ironic, AJC. Climate science is science. Its published in the usual scientific way, in journals and subject to peer review. 

Its the deniers who rely on the blogosphere (and soft interviews from Alan Jones) to get their points accross. The deniers just don't do the science. The rare few that try get shot down in flames.Wow that's huge. Not only have they falsified Anthropogenic Climate Change; they've falsified the greenhouse effect full stop.

Peer review is an ongoing process. First a panel needs to decide if the work meets publication standards. Then others try replicate the results. Its quite a vigorous process and scientists generally love to tear each others' ideas apart. That's what makes the process so robust. Ego.

But your article takes some getting to. 

The first hit is the precis of peer-review that shoots them down. Some quotes from World Scientific journal (you can read more at their fine website):

"Their most significant errors include trying to apply the Clausius statement of the Second Law of Thermodynamics to only one side of a heat transfer process rather than the entire process"

"Further, by ignoring heat capacity and non-radiative heat flows, they claim that radiative balance requires that the surface cool by 100 K or more at night, an obvious absurdity induced by an unphysical assumption."
Maybe I'm missing something, Doctor, but doesn't the fact that they published a paper debunking the initial paper (that claimed the greenhouse effect doesn't exist) constitute peer review. World Scientific has a peer review policy on-line. They claim they do peer-review prior to publication.

I think you'd be better of focusing on the absurd claim that there is no greenhouse effect than to fumble around with untruths. Unless you know something I don't.Yeah one lab the timing (not the fact that glaciers are melting) wrong. There goes the whole theory.@ CP. Peter decides.Free market capitalism is not based on infinite growth. Correlation is not causation. 

You can have free market capitalism with stable-state or shrinking economies. Some free market capitalists advocate stable-state or shrinking economies. 

I would suggest the cornucopians are in the minority. I would suggest most free-market capitalists accept there are limits to growth. They just don't know what they are. And they feel decentralised price signals are a better way to feel them out than central planning. 

I would also point out that economic growth was the express aim of many planned economies. So why not call command economies cancers too?

In support of the free-market capitalists I would point out the command economies were spectacularly bad at reaching their stated aims. Lots of waste. Not much utility.

This irks me about political discourse. People join camps and then argue against caricatures of rival camps. They don't take the time to actually listen to what the rival camp says. Then they get angry at me and accuse me of being in the rival camp when I point it out to them.Perhaps our esteemed editors could share with us stats on how many IPs view The Drum compared to how many comment. 

This would aid us on our roads to self discovery. We commentors are a vocal minority.Well I'm now embarrassed to report that when I did the Drum's "how will you vote quiz" I came out bang in the middle. Dead set where the axes intersected. 

But I don't think that's all bad. Cause what I think we should do is tinker. Sometimes (keeping my example simple) a market approach is good. Sometimes government intervention is good. 

Tinker. Always on a small scale. See if it works. See if you can improve it. Don't be offended by something that works just because it doesn't suit you ideological position.

But talking of half measures and 'sensible' middle grounds. Allow flame wars. Or stamp on all flaming. Just an idea... I'd be happy with either.More refugees were resettled here in the post war decades than convicts in the entire history of transportation. Therefore an Australian is more likely to be descended from a refugee than a convict.'Reform' often seems to mean winding things back to how they were before reforming started.It's only a cost to businesses who aren't innovative enough to avoid it.Well obviously this smut appeals to European backpackers. Hopefully some of our more enlightened attitudes rub off on them while they're here.

I've been offended by Wiked vans. I have wondered why the slogans don't constitute an offence. If we can prosecute someone for swearing in public, why not for displaying offensive slogans?We all make compromises, Lawrence. We all sell out to some degree. Personally though Wicked smut is too much. I don't care that I can't see it. I care that others can and what it says about me.

I did Bavaria in a mercedes by the way. Nice place. Meinen herz bleibt in den Bergen. Funny thing. I kept telling Germans I wanted to drive a German car in Germany. Like I drove a Charger in Hawaii. They kept hearing I want to drive a German car.

Jimmy, try explaining a wicked camper to your kids when it shows up at a family oriented camp ground or holiday park.A fair cop, Chris. I should point out that I don't actually believe my European smear.Yeah well I think the imperative to teach my son not to be a misogynist moron and to teach my daughter to stand up to them must prevail. If the idiots at Wicked breach that innocence I have to do something.Forget google, Bundy. What do you tell a kid riding his bike round a campground who sees the Bligh cartoon. How the hell do you teach him not to do that if you're not allowed to talk about it till he's 18? 
'Be the change you want to see'

GhandiThe gutlessness was that they lied and tried to hide their plans before the election. Or maybe that was contempt.

 To not revue income isn't gutless because they never had any intention to do so. They want smaller government. In fact I'm impressed that they're taking so many political risks to achieve what (for them) is an ideologically principled outcome.

We should note that its not just income that was not up for review. Taxation expenditure (ie welfare for the mega wealthy) is also untouched. They'll go on getting their CGT concessions and super concessions and negative gearing and education rebates.So to summarize. Howard handed back a temporary windfall in tax cuts and middle class welfare even though he knew we had a demographic problem looming in aged and health care.

Have I got that right?

If yes I'm really confused as to why you're telling me that. I have a five year track record of saying those exact same things here on The Drum.The tax cuts and taxation expenditures of the Howard era, din, were heavily skewed towards the wealthy. And that is an empirically testable statement. Nothing at all to do with supporting a political party.The rich can get rich by being creative and innovative. The rich can get rich by rent seeking, corruption, inside knowledge, leg-ups from family, etc.

The trick is to encourage one and discourage the other. In fact the latter hinders the former in my opinion. And I think the LNP doesn't get the former and bends over backwards to protect the latter, in my opinion. Too keen to protect the vested interests.Sure something has to be done. But not the wrong things.

Why were taxation expenditures not reviewed? Because they're targeted at the mega-rich Liberal Party core maybe?Again I urge caution in comparisons, CM.

We resettle refugees, many don't. That means our refugees turn into Australian citizens in short order. If you want to do a fair comparison you need to count Australian citizens who were once refugees.We all do our deals with devils, don't we? Perhaps people in glass houses shouldn't stand up in the bath.Doing fine is an interesting take. The thousands 'streaming' (interesting choice of word) in are creating quite a stir. Emergency meetings have been held. Border patrols have been increased. I remind the forum that the third party in the Netherlands is expressly anti-immigrant and has mainstreamed racist policies. For example the major parties agreed to banning dual-nationality a few years ago.

And lets not forget its insisting on the rigid application of the Dublin Rule and insisting the refugees should return to Italy.

The point you are responding to is about the carrying capacity of Australia. Particularly the poor quantity and quality of its water and soil. Not only have you failed to address it, you invent something that ateday did not express. Where does ateday talk about jobs or suburbs?The victim status of both poles fascinates me. The other side is abusing me, each claim. Then they abuse. Then they refuse to acknowledge they are abusive.

Or they obsess about Gillard's carbon tax lie for three long years. And then excuse the massive raft of lies Abbott told and continues to tell.

Then backers of each side commit their own lies here at the Drum. And then moan at other side lying. Breathtakingly they will lie and then complain the other side is lying in the one comment. Spotted on just last week but wasn't allowed to call him/her on it.According to AM this morning 37 of the 41 returned recently are Sinhalese.I thought 'The Castle' was a comedy. But here we have a Gen-u-ine lawyer offering the "its just the vibe" gambit.But more likely than someone who hides themself in wealthy white monoculture, butterscotch.The obvious consequence as I see it is that qualified carers will be sucked out of day care and into one on one care. It'll make the situation worse for the majority.I would urge caution in your comparison, D.G. Most countries let their refugees squat indefinately. Places like The US, Canada and Australia busily turn their refugees into naturalised citizens. The refugee lobby throws around a lot of spurious comparisons because of this. They don't compare apples with apples. Germany allowed its refugees permanent resettlement for the first time ever last year. 200 hundred of them in fact. Compared to 13,500 for us.W.S. of course I know that. The streets are abuzz with the news. Can't get a word in edgewise with all the people discussing it and France's standing in the world. Kebab vendor, service station attendant, bus driver... They're all chewing my ear off about it.I would add that it seems odd that the people who say 'you can stay but never be one of us' are not racist. But the people who pluck 13,500 destitute Sudanese out of camps and put them on a conveyor belt to full citizenship are.You're meant to tell your foreign friends how bad you think our reputation is and then ask them a loaded question like, 'don't you agree?'.

You'll get a more scientific result that way.You should have seen the stuff I had to put up with (from HR and superiors) when I tried to hire someone recovering from back surgery. In the end she was rejected because she failed to disclose it at the medical even though she disclosed it to me. But they were just looking for an excuse.

It this was for an office job in the most employee friendly workplace I've been in.

It seems Zing doesn't have much experience in large organisations if s/he assumes this kind of discrimination doesn't go on.

Also seems to be taking the position its okay to discriminate against the disabled on the basis that they fear real discrimination.Then realist needs to stop begging the question and show us the extent of the problem. He needs to show us how making disabled jump through hoops is justified by the extent of the problem.Seems the two pronged strategy is remove disability support and end the fight against disability discrimination in employment. Odd combination what? Where does it leave the disabled.

Disgusting. I'll grant you that. Disappointing if they'd been up-front. Disgusting that they planned such an assault on the social fabric and the status quo without telling the public.

Apparently Howard disapproves.Direct Action involves bureaucrats picking winners.

Carbon pricing involves individual customers and businesses working to avoid a tax. 

And you say you're a libertarian right? You believe in decentralization and individual decision making?You don't need to have a lot intelligence to identify the cheaper price.Such a good simple pollicy. It is working. Our economy is still bubbling along.

We had a chance to get ahead of the game on this. As we did to our advantage on trade liberalisation (remember people complained "no one else is doing it" in response to the Hawke/Keating reforms too).

Now we face the real threat of trade sanctions and catching up in the future.They you have it. They're fixing problems we don't have. And the tax handouts to their ultra rich mates remain.How about they just ban using the head a weapon?I've been knocked out playing soccer. Chasing down a ball a full speed (and I'm quick). Goal keeper cleared it. Hit me bang on the face.

I've also been concussed falling off playground equipment, bikes and skateboards. And banging my head on the front of van that t-boned my car. 

And once jumping onto a barrel and trying to run on it like the cartoon cliche (I was four). 

Never once knocked out playing rugby league. Got hundreds more bell ringers skateboarding than playing league. 

My point is if we're going to rule out  a lot of stuff if we're going to eliminate brain trauma.Well I for one think Abbott has revealed himself to be a bit of conservative crazy. He lied before the election to cover it but the policies are coming out now.

We could split hairs about 'neo-con' he's more libertarian; but the crazy issue is quite settled in my eyes.Does like gays, just doesn't want them to marry,Humble? Or does he actually know the answers (say an unhindered relgious and conservative indoctrination) but he's just not telling us?Everyone?I rather think a first grader, who is yet to develop morally, would attempt to pass off blame to a scapegoat and reject the notion of their own responsibility.

Business sells. Someones gotta buy the stuff.50,000 is the maximum we've had while we've been vigourously detering them and having a 13,000 cap.And what happens if demand then exceeds your higher quota?OUB. How about we check back in in two years time when Abbott starts spruiking this spurious document as policy. 

Look at the free kicks they're aleady giving the banks.Here's how the system works, OUB. Sorry I'm going to challenge a illusion you seem to treasure.

The goal of a banking exec is to get bonuses. They do tbis by taking stupid risks and earning their shareholders cents. Then every decade or so the risks explode and the shareholders lose dollars. Buf the bonuses already earned are safe. There is no recourse. The risk doesn't harm the exec so they don't care.

What causes the GFC:

1. Too big to fail banks,
2. Took stupid risks,
3. In a complex interconnected system (the contagion spread from institution to institution).

Efforts to regulate any of those three points limit the size of 'profits' (as the cents earned between blowups are falsely labelled) and hence bonuses. Rest assured our finance supermen are vigorously lobbying to have these restrictions on their bonuses removed.Maybe the same reason 'the right' is obsessed with sweeping it under the carpet?Okay that's what he thought. It seems from the backlash he thought wrong.

It seems from the backlash to Bolt's Law he was wrong too. It seems they've both found they're on the wrong side of popular sentiment.

That good news, right?Maybe the cafe owner assumed everyone was a racist as he was? Maybe he was projecting his own prejudices? 

Why, after all, would he assume broader society would object to African's serving coffee but not Asians?On the one hand we have to confront racism where we see it. I don't want to diminish that responsibility.

What irks me is this histrionic shift. Australia is a racist country. It distracts from the issue, I think. 

Are we really talking about racism, or do we just want to agitate Australians? Instead of focusing on the problem we start making comparisons.

Focus on the behavior. 

What about racist African caricatures in Swedish newspapers? More to the point, what about racist African caricatures in Chinese newspapers and pop-culture? Remember the racist flak Condelisa Rice copped there?   

If you want to talk about Germany and France v Australia. Often my wife (who looks Asian but is Peruvian) tendered a note there she'd be met with a frown and it would be held up to the light. She cops some parochial crap in Oz when she's out in the sticks but this happened to her in major cities. Indeed in Strasbourg no less.

There's also the recent inquiry into neo-Nazi murders in Germany. 1 There was a string of racist murders. 2 The investigating policy refused to see it insisting on investigating non-existence terror links in the murders.

As I say focus on the racism. Lets have articles on the racism. Less of these meaningless rankings.No absolutely not. And I don't know how you could take that message from what I typed.

I say confront the racism of Australians. 

I say confront the racism of Germans and French. 

I'm saying don't get lost in comparisons. What I'm saying is the antithesis of what you're suggesting.Well Mr Green is on 702 right now declaring the comments section is a community service for people with mental problems.

While I agree wholeheartedly (me included); I can't help but feel I've been cynically manipulated...So I'll start on the attack on Zelda Williams. Totally inappropriate. Condemn it absolutely. Twitter should give users the ability to block trolls. But they don't cause they want to make money. I condemn twitter. I condemn facebook for the same reason.

I do offer the observation that activities I would describe as low-level sadism are common in non-pathological humans. It is quite common for people to take delight in the misfortune of rivals and enemies. Take Abbott's 'Suppository'. Was the guffufle about it reasoned concern about his mental abilities. Or we just jumping on cause it made him look silly. Did his enemies not take delight in it?

Slapstick humor? Sporting rivalry?

How about when you get the usual 'Labor/Liberal are idiots' barbs here? Is this pure reason? Is it a legitimate analysis of the mental faculties of our politicians? Or are the throwers trying to upset their rivals?

I think the 'troll' label is problematic here. I think its thrown around too much and used merely to slur someone one disagrees with. I also think its impossible to divorce human-feeling (including what I call non-pathological sadism) from a lively discussion. People feel passions. People like to best rivals. People feel personal insult when you criticize their tribe. Even if that tribe is called Labor/Liberal.

Another problem I have is it can be arbitrary. The mods are generally even handed, I find. Pop is wrong. Pop thinks he's being singled out but he's not. Everyone gets spiked. A broad spectrum of commentors complain about it. people want to use them a shields, where their rivals have none. But they still want to hang onto their spears. A liberal voter wants to call Labor voters nitwits, but its trolling if Labor returns serve.

Also if we make a discussion purely reasonable, it becomes purely boring. Cause again we're people and we have hormones and emotions.Lucksmith, debunker has declared in his first sentence he's not providing reasoned arguments.

Which is a shame really. I like his old stuff better than his new stuff. He was actually quiet good at reasonable discussion (and whimsy ) before he turned.Oh and I would point out Debunker's bitterest rivals complain just as much that their comments are spiked. They even had a web site devoted to it. 

And they express equivalent mystification as to the reasons. The problem I think they all have is an inability to criticize themselves. Although debunker reveals a certain self knowledge here. For mine they were getting spiked for abuse but they were all unable to see it in themselves.I don't agree we have a left wing major party.It's not. Its more disturbing than if the abuse was evenly distributed.I beseech our esteemed moderators to intervene here. What do they find? How does the volume and quality of abuse directed at female contributors compare?

I feel your opinion would be very illuminating here.They know the gender of the published author. Some commenters have female names. Some commenters identify themselves as mothers and wives.They knew the China windfall was temporary. They knew a demographic crisis was looming. But these bastions of restraint couldn't help themselves.So John you'd say there was no great fall in revenue in the wake of the GFC?It annoys the blazes out of me when people sound off so definitely on concepts they're not familiar with. 'Money in the bank' is not the same thing as 'surplus'. Costello did not leave a $20B surplus.

I think you need to look into what economists mean when the say 'cyclical' and 'structural'. If a government commits to permanent (ie structural) expenditure and tax cuts using a temporary windfall (ie cyclical revenue) how can the problem be anything but structural?

What Costello says on record with an eye to his party's fortunes and his legacy might be completely different to what he says off record. In fact if political journalists are to be believed it is. Many have suggested he privately bemoaned Howards' big spending ways.How could Swan deny it when it was there? How can I deny it? I didn't. Except it wasn't technically in the bank but you'd know all about that wouldn't you?

John I don't think you're a very good economist. A good economist would not have completely missed my point and assumed I was denying the existence of $20B. A good economist would have recognized the point I was actually making and addressed it. As hard as you may find it to believe I have had a deal of economics education, although finance is my crust.Well not exactly, John, because a fair whack of that $20B was from asset sales. Telstra in particular. I'm surprised you're not aware of this, given your expertise.

Come on, John, imagine an economics professor standing before a lecture and arguing the difference between 'budget surplus' and 'a managed fund owned by the government' is semantic? Maybe you can. 

Just a word of warning, John. There was a commenter impersonating a doctor here a couple of weeks ago. Obvious to everyone except the impersonator.Forest the Liberal fan club would have more credibility on this if it acknowledged that a lot of the problem is down to Howard building in recurrent expenditure (like Family Tax Benefit) on top of temporary windfalls. 

If we're going to have a sensible discussion fan clubs of all persuasions need to deal with reality.And the sooner people paid down debt the sooner they felt like spending again.Someone had a useful idea to approximate economic behavior once. Assume humans are rational. It works, as I say, approximately.

The problem the initial useful approximation (as with so many) is that people subsequently fetish it. They become seduced by its aesthetic appeal. They assume the rule of thumb us an immutable law of nature. 

So many IPA members are seduced by the aesthetic appeal of rational choice, in spite of the overwhelming evidence that people will routinely make irrational choices that are not in their best interests. At least I hope they are seduced, one other explanation for their enthusiasm is that they are cynically manipulating this irrationality because it heaps wealth and power on their bosses.

But anyway this is where the IPA is coming from. Expect consumers are completely rational. Expect also that they have perfect information about the state of the economy.

This perspective ignores a vital point. Human sentiment. The object wasn't a clinical operation to improve output by $X billion. It was to fight the negative sentiments of consumers. Or stir the positive.Someone had a useful idea to approximate economic behavior once. Assume humans are rational. It works, as I say, approximately.

The problem the initial useful approximation (as with so many) is that people subsequently fetish it. They become seduced by its aesthetic appeal. They assume the rule of thumb us an immutable law of nature. 

So many IPA members are seduced by the aesthetic appeal of rational choice, in spite of the overwhelming evidence that people will routinely make irrational choices that are not in their best interests. At least I hope they are seduced, one other explanation for their enthusiasm is that they are cynically manipulating this irrationality because it heaps wealth and power on their bosses.

But anyway this is where the IPA is coming from. Expect consumers are completely rational. Expect also that they have perfect information about the state of the economy.

This perspective ignores a vital point. Human sentiment. The object wasn't a clinical operation to improve output by $X billion. It was to fight the negative sentiments of consumers. Or stir the positive.Isn't it manners that the person making the assertion provides the evidence to back it up?So Arabs didn't resent Turkish control? This is historical revision?Glib subject change? I don't think Malaki meets the 'after WW1' criterea.I've carefully reread my post and I'm struggling to see where I denied what you said I denied. I should add you're the one who's denying part of the story, not me. Yes the colonial powers meddled. But they intervened in real tensions and fault lines.

Faisal had British support. Faisal had tribal support. Its a bit rich that the person who dogmatically denies half of this equation, nay gets angry at the mere mention of facts that disturb his doctrinaire certainty, accuses others of revisionism.That's great, Lardy. Now can I bring you back to your original point. I think we were discussing the fracturing of the middle east post WW1.We do know an armed, keyed-up, assailant followed him even though cops told him not to. We know the armed keyed-assailant has been in trouble with police subsequent to the incident.

We have no idea what happened when the armed man closed with the dead boy except for what his killer tells us. The dead boy can't give his version of events can he? So maybe we should avoid dancing on his grave.

Disgusting...Well we've gotta ask ourselves if any intervention will cause more harm than good. And the US has a habit of pissing the liberated off even when they've been initially welcomed. In my opinion this is be because they're really bad at running counter- insurgencies. In Somalia for example they would run 'profiling missions ' over Mogadishu. They were random helicopter flights to confuse militia. Unfortunately these flights would blow over shanty structures that many lived in. 

Hey presto! The liberating heroes transformed themselves into hated occupiers in the blink of an eye. 

From Vietnam to Iraq they just keep on doing stuff like that. That's got to make them stop and think. If they're going to intervene they've got to think very carefully about how they do it.Yeah well I think they let you go to far. Given my obsessive pursuit of anti-Australian bigots here I suppose I should register my disapproval of your (in my opinion) bigotry.You went much further than drawing a link between Islam and violence. You drew a link between violence and 'uncivil... Muslim populations... generally". That's your bigotry. Please spell out mine for me.

I will draw a specific link between ISIS violence and Islam. They can justify (say) the capture of sex slaves from reading part of their texts. They can justify the cruel torture and murder of the poor journalist by reading part of their text. But others can read another part of their text and claim it tells them something else. And then they both do what your average (relevant) Christian does and cherry picks.

As it happens most Christians prefer not to pick Genesis. Most prefer not to pick Exodus and god's frequent instructions to annihilate out-groups and take their girls as sex slaves. Note the sexism is god's not mine. I don't view girls as chattels. 

A surprisingly mainstream idea amongst Christians in the US is that gays should be punished or even killed. Americans have promoted and funded legislation aimed at making homosexuality a capital offense in Uganda. Many states in the US now legally compel women seeking an abortion to undergo an unnecessary vaginal ultrasound. That is it is a legal requirement to rape any woman seeking an abortion with a medical probe first. All this violence is real and growing. And its all justified by civil Christians interpreting actual text.

So do I now hold every Christian nay every person who attends a Christmas mass responsible?Gee thanks for defining 'decile' for us, Jonathan.Okay I take back my earlier snark. Sorry Jonathan. Perhaps next time you could offer a more explicit definition of 'decile'.Why start at the mid-80s? Are you trying to skew your results by excluding the Frazer government? Or are you trying to sneak in the global recession that thwarted Labor?Sometimes you need to confront,  sometimes you need more subtlety.  I've no strong feeling either way on this case. Shorten advanced a reasonable argument so I think you need to address that argument.  Others have adopted a more confrontational approach.  Like say the Dutch PM who made blunt demands of Putin and took to his megaphone (ie Twitter) and told the world about it.

Whether confrontation is warranted or not your attitude is not helpful.  We don't need bystanders egging it along. Confrontation needs to be pursued only after careful deliberation.  And with a mind to the fact we will eventually need to get along with the confronted.  Egging them on with ill considered threats isn't a good idea either.How? Refusing to consider cuts to taxation expenditures to the rich. Like Capital Gains Tax concessions,  concessional tax treatment of superannuation,  education rebates...Are in theory but not in practice.Helvi. So you took Abbott's utterance as a literal physical threat?Have you been following the scandal of institutional abuse in Catholic institutions in the Netherlands? It seems they went as far castrating mentally ill and troubled boys. Seems it took a lot longer to come out there than it did here too. Just thought I'd throw that in because it strikes me as odd that, off all the examples in the world, you'd single out England and Ireland.

And did you here about the Dutch veteran who tried to publish a book about atrocities he partook in in Indonesia. He had to answer criminal charges for it. Talk about suppressing inconvenient history.No it wouldn't. It would be some bloke who fought against Indonesian independence in the 40s or 50s and was prosecuted for defaming the Dutch military for trying to publish his memoirs in about 2012.

You may have a point re relevance and I would rather not have discussed these matters. But tell me what relevance did English and Irish institutional abuse have to do with the piece?Did you know that the Dutch were bombing ISIS before us? And bombing Libya when we weren't?Italy shut down its rescue program recently because Europe would not help them pay for it. Many in Europe refused to become involved because they considered it to be a pull factor. They did not want to encourage boat crossings.

Sound familiar? 

So how about we talk about how we should treat asylum seekers. I would suggest that would be a compassionate person's priority. Not derailing every discussion into your preferred topic; which seems to be the defective character of Australians.Just had a quick walk around my office.

16 white people; 12 non-white. You've gotta get out more, champ.Sure thing. So the next step is import tariffs on countries that don't have an effective reduction scheme. We were ahead of the game with our carbon tax. Now we'll be playing catch up.We know for a fact that there is a greenhouse effect. We know for example that this is why the daytime and nighttime temperatures fluctuate more on Mars than on Earth or Venus.

We know carbon is a greenhouse gas and that we are changing the chemical composition of the atmosphere with our artificial intervention. 

You're right. The consequences are too complex to foresee. 

But the idea that this should make us less alarmed is, frankly, one of the most stupid ideas going around today.

That bans the mining and marketing of asbestos products and has a government funded program to document and remove asbestos from dwellings.Unlike the theory that god created matter and energy. That is being proved by experiments all the time.Did you know that Germany granted permanent residency to 200 refugees for the first time ever last year? Compare that to thousands a year every year for decades for us.

Or that their powerhouse status is looking more than a little shaky on the latest figures?Did you know Italy has stopped its Mare Nostra rescue mission? It did this because the rest of Europe refused to chip in for the expense. A much smaller turn them back mission is now underway under EU auspices. One reason no one would fund the Italian mission is concerns it was a pull factor and encouraged refugees.

All I ask of you, Gerard, is to deal with the facts. Not just the ones that suit  racial theories about who is worst. Oh and perhaps stay on topic. Your theory had no place here. You have hijacked this discussion.What if someone knows that they're wrong but cynically repeats the error because it suits them? 

Anyway on first blush it would seem Australians are actually more accepting of foreigners than Germans. Refugees . Guest Workers. But the first impression is wrong. Australians offer newcomers residency because of Aborigines and convicts. And bushrangers and all that stuff. You know it makes sense.I think the point is they weren't allowed in then either. In part because of some sympathy for their oppressors amongst the left.If its a counterpoint to the sanctification of Whitlam (or Labor cheerleaders) I think its quiet a valid point. Labor's acquiescence on Timor is also troubling on that point.

 Although coming from a rival cheerleader it is probably hypocritical.Are you talking to me, ghoul? I can't see were I confused socially responsible government with the charade of communism. If anything I was highlighting that someone else had done that.When I use the term historicism I intend it to have Popper's meaning. In this context historicism means the attempt to define laws of destiny by observing the past. Popper for example attacks Marx's predictions on this basis.

I'm sure I don't know what you're trying to say when use it.

Sure thing, local indigenous people can fight all the colonial powers they want. Where have I said otherwise? What's it got to with the fact some on the left in Australia were hostile to anti-communist Vietnamese who were fleeing here?

Here's the game. Banks don't make profits. When they blow up every 10 years they lose more than the 'profits' the made in the good years. In the good years management takes stupid risks so that it can skim bonuses and run. And there's no recourse for the rest of us mugs.

So let's do what Switzerland did. If a bank blows up or needs government help, take back bonuses. Problem solved. Watch how quickly they stop taking stupid risks. Further step. If any business receives it expects government assistance; pay management according to public service pay scales. Its immoral that truck drivers and check-out operators subsidize multi-million remuneration packages through the tax system.No Maynard, its the entire banking system and its at least once a decade. Unless you think St George, Bankwest, Macquarie, Lehman Brothers, etc were state owned labor controlled banks and 2008  was two decades ago.So that's one bank. But I'm talking about the banking system generally. As is this article. If you want to undermine my theory you need to deal with all banks and all crises. I seriously don't know what you're trying to say. Are you saying their wasn't a big global blow up in 2008?Maynard and Cat. Did you read the article. Macquarie would have blown up if not for government intervention. Bankwest and St George if not for funds from their acquirers. The big banks would have been in deep do-do if not for government guarantees.

If you can't get your heads around these simple facts we're just going around in circles.

Westpac incidentally was on death's door at the time the state banks fell over. It made the same rash decisions in the same asset bubble. The other majors were seriously crook to. If not for the nudge and wink decision to leave official interest rates higher than justified they too may have died. We let mum and dad mortgagees go to the wall to save the banks and the hides of their management.Well I'll concede, John, that my comment was poorly punctuated but a little effort on your behalf should show I said no such thing.Phew! If an economist predicts it, it ain't gonna happen.I'm struggling to see what Tory Boy's comment has got to do with the article. Its not about Whitlam, its about politics generally. 

And I find his request petulant. Look it up on Wikipedia. The two party preferred vote was 56/44.I hear ya splod. Worse than partisan cheerleading is partisan cheerleaders complaining about partisan cheerleading.Oh! Same to you, Ann! Very naughty.

No way are Watson and Sarkesian radical. Take out Dines who neither if us has heard of and we don't have a couple left.Sorry I missed the Suey Park reference. I do think she's a bit scattered.

As to Sarkesian and Watson it is my firm opinion that PI is talking through his hat. He hasn't read em. Its patently obvious to someone who has.  Ironically he seems to be channeling their rabid haters' blogs YouTube presentations. 

That was the substance of another post I made. My comment to you was subsidiary to that.Perhaps PI could identify something radical Sarkesian or Watson has said. Perhaps that would help us advance the discussion.Okay so tell us. What has Dines said that you find radical?What claims might she be failing to back up, PI?I couldn't see the point either but suspected a possible nefarious motive. Kick Dunham about race. And kick her about the embarrassing childhood stories while pretending not to.

Just a thought. It's the only way I could make sense of it all.Documenting Assad's crimes is not the same as being anti-Assaad. 

Being anti-Assaad is not the same as praising Australians who travel to fight him.

And what's wrong with being anti-Assaad?Well not so good a job. I can't recall one instance of the media praising someone who went to fight Damuscus.Well I read into your first comment that you were talking about the media praising Australians going to fight Assad. Generic praise of 'rebels' is not the same as praising Australians going there to fight.Well that's a relief Ann. I'm glad you cleared that up. 

Their totalitarians,  who just last week hauled the 6 and 8 year old sons of a police chief out into the street and executed them, massacred fleeing Iraqi army soldiers (who had been abandoned by their officers), massacre members of resistant tribes, attempt the genocide of Yazidis and carry the girls off as sex slaves...

But they're not fascist. Its important to split these hairs while Yazidi girls are being sold in markets. 

You know we wouldn't want to be overly harsh to child-raping, genocidaires.In the context of the history of war I think that is an extremely week argument, Dove. In the context of the documented attrocities taking place in Iraq (I remind you again 6 and 8 year old boys executed) I find it offensively flippant and suspect obfuscation on your part.

Did you see the piles of corpses and rows of severed heads on Four Corners last night?

Armies have always found time to rape, loot, massacre and fight. Google Rape of Nanking or Mai Lai massacre or The Holocaust...And by the way it seems that (as in Afghsnistan under the Taliban) there are literal physical market places for girls. Sorry I can't recall the source right now.

And even if the market was virtual or private it doesn't make it any less disgusting.Dove I think the raging Takfiri theology that underpins this broad hostility makes them more facist not less. Do you know many Muslims who pass "ISIS" muster?

They're bloody revenge they're visiting on Sunni tribes right now is pay back for their rebellion last time ISIS had its boots on their throats. ISIS' theology is grossly offesive to tribal customs apparently.Yeah lets fritter a few billion on corporate welfare until our trading partners compel us to introduce an ETSo anyway. Great idea.Maybe Cathy. So why would we switch to a system that relies on increased expenditure?Why does an ETS need continued economic growth?

I'll leave it there for now but I could write more than 500 words on the facilies underpinning your arguments. You beg question. You resort to historicism. You assume there is no techological alternative.How can you know that? How can you know in advance what reductions will be acheived?See the none to subtle category error you (perhaps deliberatley) made there gerard? Conservative  v progressive countries?

I'm suggesting global warming is far too an important matter to hijack with nationalist flaming. And again that nationalist flaming isn't a good way to convince people. Unless of course one's primary motivation is nationalist flaming and one really doesn't care about the serious matter at hand.I'm not opposed to civilisations. I'm opposed to people who (for example) rule by terror, deny women education, keep Yazidi girls as sex-slaves, commit genocide and threaten the destroy cultural heritage.

If a chap shares the same tastes in architecture, food, fashion and beard cultivation but does none of the above; I've no problem with him. I'm certainly not going to hold him responsible for sins of someone who happens to grow a similar beard. 

Collective guilt isn't Monster's scene, man! Also we've got to stop using 'we' as a weasel word. Its an annoying habit we've picked up. Collective guilt again. Uncool! Don't assume I think in the same simplistic terms as you.Collective guilt again, champ. Its not the religion that endorses the bad stuff. Its a theology. And that theology is vigorously contested within the relugion. In fact the bad guys' theology is underpinned by Takfiri; the idea that they may declare professed Muslims infidels. 

I've got a problem with anyone who holds the theology.

But you've changed the subject. Civilisation is not religion.No one knows what you do with your ballot.Couple of drinks on the house and I'm a fortune teller...

Zeppelin to win.

On Brand and women. About two years ago he wrote a series of apparently misogynistic/sexist things. People called him on it.

His response? Deflection? Denial? No. He wrote a column in the Guardian saying his critics were right. Thanked them for the tip and promised to check himself in the future. I like his style. I can't agree with his anti-politics but I admire his capacity for intelectual thought and self-criticism.Nothing light about those reforms.

Funniest thing I ever saw on Mediawatch. A paper from FNQ suggested an opinion poll was skewed by socialists voting for Keating
My next door neighbour is studying in La Paz. She says the sumsets are devine by there is a dreadful problem with stray cats.
I swear to God, Australia is the best country in the world. Look to tell you the truth I only vaguely skimmed the article but Chrisopher Pyne is thinking about the education system, right? And that's bloody fantastic! Such an Australian thing to do! 

I reckon we should all be real proud of ourselves!

Well that's the standard right? That there's an acceptable and edifying comment?Does realist have any evidence that its green policies causing the German economic mailaise?

Does Helvi have any evidence to contadict the overwhelming data that shows there is a malaise? Can she show us the net difference in bright German students coming here to study?

Does the ill-considered nationalist flaming of both commentors get us anywhere? Is it even on-topic? If a commentor is going to persistently engage in nationalist flaming isn't it fair to allow vastly more factual and relevant counter-flaming? If a commentor is going to persistently suggest deficient Australian culture is to blame for every random mishap that it encounters isn't it fair to point out similar deficiencies in other cultures?As usual no ones interested in the nuance. Look at the Anders Breivek shootings. The generic left raced to condemn his ideology. The generic right rushed to blame mental illness. Or the misogynist killer in California. Misogyny denies rushed to blame mental illness and sweep his misogyny under the carpet.

The interesting question would be the interplay of the factors.He was also so bad in that he managed to provoke and international energy crisis.

Keating was so bad he provoked a international asset bubble and subsequent recession.Why be sorry? No one else is when they do it.

Are you aware of the sad plight of homeless and neglected cats? Responsible owners neuter, folks! Volunteer at a shelter!Scientific issues can't be decided by vote. But apparently they can be decided by blogosphere, PR campaign and soft interviews on the Alan Jones radio program.Do you think Spurr's alleged sneering contempt for "bogans" is further evidence of a failing moral compass? Or maybe he has a point in that case?I was talking to a Vietnam veteran. He was in the Navy. At the time a sailor had to serve 21 consecutive days in the gun line to qualify for war service benefits. So the Navy would have ships steam out of the gun line after the 19 days only to return after a days rest.

This was under security loving, military respecting conservatives.

The sailor was forever grateful to Whitlam for extending the war service benefits to him. A cheap loan helped him build his house.Oops! Looks like I hit the wrong reply button. Which might make my comment look a bit confusing.

I didn't claim Whitlam introduced the loans. I was making the point that previous governments and the public service were playing silly buggers so that personnel on the gun-line for substantial periods didn't qualify for them. Whitlam it seems did the decent thing and made the benefits available to them.I'm sorry slightly bemused by the description of his defeat as a landslide. More than 45% of the electorate preferred him. Small changes in preference cause big changes in our parliament. I don't think we should confuse the two.An excellent point Fedup. The onus of proof should be on John.

He wants to mess with the chemical composition of a complex system that he doesn't fully understand. He needs to prove its safe. Jericho doesn't need to prove its dangerous.I think the threat of annihilation makes this a special case of 'doing anything'.If we want to talk irrationality, Bulldust. How about:

We should not be worried about changing the chemical composition of the atmosphere because it is very difficult to foresee the consequences.

But you're changing the subject, aren't you? 'What threat' is a red herring. How can we talk about the precautionary principle and not acknowledge the threat we're taking precautions against? The threat is given. You need to explain what risk (that the scientists are predicting annihilation are right) you're prepared to live with. 

1%? 10%? 20%?You want absolute proof before you act on a risk of total cataclysm? I'd suggest you're not very good at assessing risks. Don't worry you're not alone. Humans are generally very bad at it. Cognitive biases hinder us.Catastrophic does not have the same meaning as cataclysmic.Who did better in midst's of the OPEC crisis?Have a look at the opinion polls about people's attitudes to the discrimination laws that got Bolt. They're popular laws. You're the minority, Bev. Society has moved on.Yeah cause I only hang out with abnormal people who always get polled. 

I word of caution to opinionated people. 'Yes' often means I don't want to talk about this, not 'I agree'.Okay then Bev, why not get your majority together and organize a counter-boycott. Shop at Coles until the Woolies relents. Flex your muscles.I say who cares? We all knew what we were talking about.Its still bigoted though.Isn't Cornman laughing at himself by making the Schwarzenegger reference.

What's that got to do with Helvi's point that Cornman can't laugh at himself?I think it might have something to do with your personal biases, grey. Unless you can table a scientific study to support your observation...I think they're not so much socialists as crony capitalists. They don't walk the talk on free markets. 

The conversation around them can frustrate me. Their critics go along with them in as far as they agree they're witnessing free markets in action. But the behaviors they criticize are actually crony-capitalism.I would add that I feel Australians should feel somewhat concerned that the Abbott government is revealing itself to be crony-capitalists of the highest order. Most recent example is Abbott trying to pick a winner with the coal industry. Even Verrender's steely eyed traders are betting against coal's future.All part of the game. They make themselves 'too big to fail' so that they can impose on the taxpayer. I think next time we bail them out we should own them. And management goes onto public service pay scales. And we Brea them up and before we sell them. And we claw back any bonuses earned on the 'profits' made between blow-UPS.I think if you are going to "explain" something to someone you are ethically obliged to also explain that it is a highly controversial opinion. And disclose to the extent you are aware that it relies on subjective interpretation of facts. Subjective interpretation might also be called half truths and willful distortions.

The Federal Reserve system is established by an Act of Congress. Congress can and does change its powers from time to time. The board is appointed by the president. It outvotes the heads of regional banks on policy settings. I can only surmise that 'no oversight' refers to its independence on monetary policy settings. This is a feature common to central banks in most advanced economies.

The system is not fully private. Private components are more prominent than other countries. To the extent that banks are customers of the central bank private components occur in all country's systems.
I'm not arguing against restraining capitalism here. But the article is about restrained capitalism. Unrestrained capitalism would have let Macquarie die. Unrestrained capitalism at least keeps the lords turning over lest they establish their vested interests.It seems to me that bigotry is ingrained in us all. So I wonder if some form of private bigotry is actually desirable? Just to get it out our systems.I do speak for myself and frequently acknowledge my biases.

But I can speak for others because psychologists have proved it. We are all flawed by cognitive biases that lead to bigotry. That is an indisputable scientific fact. 

When you do interview panel training in a progressive organization they teach you this. And they teach you the only way you can mitigate your biases is to own them.

I sound the warning regularly. If you think you're immune to biases you're in a dangerous place. You know this Helvi. You can see it in the comments of Liberal cheerleaders who deny our society has any problem at all with sexism or racism. They're convinced they're bias free. You and I can see they're not. Its a pity we can't see the logs in our eyes.

I invite criticism on my biases. If you can show me one instance of me saying a bigoted thing please quote it for me."I extent my warmest congratulations to... Richard Flanagan on being awarded the prestigious Man Booker Prize in 2014."

"This accolade recognizes not only Richard's wonderful writing... but is a reflection of the quality of Australian literature"

"Australians will be immensely proud of Richard's achievement"

From a press release by George Brandis dated 15 October 2014.

Hello? Wakey wakey?

Anyway thanks for the constructive criticism that was in no way intended to inflame or offend Australians, Gerard. It was very helpful and I intend to mend my ways.Nassim Nicholas Taleb reckons Pinker's statistical method is a joke. Taleb reckons violence is actually increasing; or that small incidents are decreasing but the occasional flare-ups are much more severe. His most persuasive point is that while ever there's a threat of instant nuclear annihilation we can't take the idea we like in a peaceful age seriously.

Pinker has a turkey problem. Based on observations over a hundred days the turkey concludes the farmer is a nice man who is solicitous of the turkey's health and nutritional needs. Day 101 us Christmas.Interesting point. I was pondering why I didn't share Richard Flanagan's shame even though I would share a similarly low estimation of our current government's environmental policies. 

I think they are the very nadir of stupidity. But I'm not ashamed to be Australian.

I'm persuaded that there is a certain equivalency between 'Love or leave' and 'I'm ashamed '.I would also point out that this comment seems to be an off-topic hijacking. The thrust of the article is that bigots are out off touch with the tolerant majority. This topic is ignored so that Helvi here and Gerard below can hijack the discussion and either talk about the defective character of Australians or offer a justification like this.

I see there are two ethical responses to this. Either you cut the inflammatory hijacking or you allow a response. Even if the inflaming hijackers are former employees who have been known to correspond with the referee when things don't go their ways.Please define 'enough'.How about we say less multicultural then? No one needs to go there to prove that. Just look at the demographics. No one has done multiculturalism to the extent we have. No one. And I would contend no one has done it better.I too have been bored witless by Peruvians holding forth on the excellence of their education system. Its a subset of the general boring conversation that is a slight annoyance in a multicultural society. Everyone everywhere else does everything better.

Yet still they come and still they stay. Hundreds of thousands each year.

Peruvians have also been known to bore me with their intellectual conversations. Like listing the US presidents in chronological order. Something they learnt at school but I didn't. Or recite the dates of Napoleons battles. They're amazed and think us grossly ignorant that we don't rote learn those in school.

I achieved top decile results and my school prize in Ancient History only vaguely referring to dates. The focus in our curricula is interpreting sources. That is I wasn't taught to recite dates. I was taught how to do history.

I ask you who learnt the more valuable lesson?

I can tell you from two young Peruvians currently here on Peru government scholarships (why?) that there is agitation to change the curriculum there. It is felt that rote learning is leaving students with insufficient critical thinking skills and creativity.
PISA is only useful in as far as it shows some countries get higher scores than Australia. Its absolutely useless when it shows Australia gets higher scores than most (including Norway, Sweden and Denmark).They started it doesn't cut it. Either you're anti-Sexism or you're not.My summary of the article (or the phenomena behind it)

Labor acknowledges women's problems but falls to denial when they are the transgressors.

Liberal denies women's issues but will suddenly loudly acknowledge them if Labor transgresses.

Denial and rank hypocrisy all round.

I am a sexist. Just the other day I was introduced to 'Bhav'. I went to shake her make colleague's hand assuming he'd be introduced first. I admire my children when they display physical courage but I like more when my son does so.


Its a sad fact if human nature. Spot it easily in everyone else. Fall to vigorous protective denial when its pointed out in one's self. My opinion is that a progressive's inner journey should be towards acknowledging biases and prejudices in ones self. A fervent belief that one is free of prejudice is a dangerous place to be. I believe Labor should hold itself to a higher standard on these matters.Jerry have you seen the Amnesty report that condemns Scandinavian countries generally but Denmark in particular for their retrograde sexual assault laws?
Okay I'll deal with the red herring first. You're right we need to be careful when making comparisons because of different statistical methods. But if we have a problem with different but robust methods how much more skeptical should we be of anecdotes like... well like your's? And your get out if jail card can be applied to any country. No one has a problem its just statistics...

You seem to have misconstrued the Amnesty report (or seen a different one). The report had nothing to do with statistics. It was concerned with the way sexual assault is defined by law.I want to vote for Hugh Grant's PM from Love Actually. 

Seriously? We're starting at anecdote and moving on to fiction to make a point?Have you heard of the other Danish masterpiece "Bachmann"? It's been described as 'the most sexist TV show of all time.A balanced budget (over the business cycle) is a core tenet of Keynes. Deficits should be financed from reserves. Or if not net debt paid off when times are good.Look it up a Blax I think there's a certain onus to inform yourself about basic economic concepts before you enter a serious discussion on it. I'll help you out in this case. The Business Cycle is the tendency for economies to grow and recede over time. The business cycle starts (say) in depths of one recession and concludes in the depths of the next.

We're talking about Keynes here and managing the business cycle was central to his macroeconomic ideas.If we don't want flame wars we shouldn't allow flaming full stop. What does the Westminster system have to with anything? It was at the periphery of Verrender's article and it was pointed out that the problem was Howard subverting it.

This thread represents a derailment. The Westminster system here is a beserk button that sets the usual suspects off on an anti-"Anglo" rant.Not to mention willful ignorance in the case if Sound of Music. Fleeing over the Alps from Salzburg lands you smack bang in the Nazi retreat Berchtesgaden. Not Switzerland. In Berchtesgaden you can visit Hitler's Eagle's Nest retreat.

IRL they actually caught the train to Italy. Von Trapp was also an Italian citizen. No one tried to stop them.I think your quote would make a lot more sense if you could attribute it to someone and place it in some kind of context. Funny thing is I can't remember that fact. Its news to me.Of course. Don't I look silly now!Scandinavian governments spend more on R&amp;D than ours. If you take all sources we spend more on R&amp;D than the Scandinavian countries as a percentage of GDP and per capita. Finland spends more than us as a total and government.

As for non-warmongering I think we can draw two threads together. Just a gut feeling. Finland, Norway and Sweden all have prominent death machine industries. Far more prominent than in our economy. And who funds R&amp;D into death machines?

Just as an example the US exceeds Finland in both total and government funded R&amp;D. And what do you think they're spending all that money on? I would also point out that the Nokia head office is Finland. Small country global market. That would tend to skew Finlands figure higher.There is some cause for optimism. Bolt and Brandis found themselves on the wrong side of popular opinion on the Racial Discrimination Act. Bernardi and Co have been slapped down by more sensible members (including Brandis) on burka bans. 

It seems to me that the inflamers are talking to a small group; who unfortunately happen to be swinging voters in marginal electorates. 

Everyone's just gotta chill though. Don't get sucked in by tribal inflamers. Do something more productive. Go to the beach. Watch the cricket. Just take it easy.I don't doubt that the #WISH incidents occur. And they need to be confronted.

But if we're to keep a lid on these things we need to acknowledge that the racial abuse doesn't go one way. The victimized tribes also have members who victimise. It won't do (and it hasn't done) to sweep racism against white-Australians under the carpet. That just leads to pent up hostility. 

What I'm getting at is that everyone needs to take a step back. Everyone needs to chill out.I suppose self-protective victim-blaming often comes into these things. If one leads an obsessively hate-filled life an elaborate, daily justification is easier on the ego than confronting the hate in one's heart.I would point out that one of those political gains is to provoke the millennial battle. Apparently their chosen HQ is an important part if their end time prophecy. I would also point out that (as if anyone needs reminding) severed heads  seem to play a fairly important part in their propaganda and control of populations.

I would suggest to Trent that the tribal leaders who have their doors kicked in and are then beheaded or crucified are pretty bloody scared. I would suggest the girls carried off as war booty and then gang raped and sold in markets are pretty bloody scared.

It amazes me that you two want to split hairs on whether they're a death cult it not. Surely you can find more substantial bones of contention.May I start by saying how lamentable and utterly stupid I find the LNP's recent cuts to science and it's stone age crusade against scientists generally?

But I feel compelled to point out your figures seem to be wrong. 

It seems Australia spends more on R&amp;D as a percentage of GDP than Norway and The Netherlands if one adjusts for Purchasing Power Parito. 

If you if look actual R&amp;D expenditure PER CAPITA US$PPP Australia is ahead of those countries AND Denmark. 

Australia $978. Denmark $906. Germany $861. Norway $822. Netherlands $641.

I would also submit in our defense that R&amp;D is a subset of overall investment. And that capital is a scarce resource. We have been busily ploughing our scarce capital into developing mines for the last decade. I suppose Norway could offer the same excuse. But what's Netherlands' excuse?Oldie I would point out that super funds are fully invested by definition. They aren't allowed to keep cash under a mattresses. I would also point out that a portfolio heavily weighted to R&amp;D is beyond the risk appetite of most fund members.What building cities that no one will live in and white elephant infrastructure to delay and make worse an inevitable correction? Not for me thanks.The RBA was made substantially independent on rates by Hawke-Keating. It is widely acknowledged that they made the 1990's recession substantially worse by ignoring its rates decisions for political expediency. This gave impetus to full independence under Costello. Since full independence there have been several instances of the government arguing against rises being ignored by the RBA.

This attitude frustrates sensible discussion, Gerard. And I think lands you in a lot of hot water in online discussions. You got it wrong, admit it and move on. These interesting facts, that anyone can read on Wikipedia, have nothing to do the fact that your first point was wrong. Doubling down like this frustrates people.I think you're making the same comment. You're both just making predictions that ultimately neither of you have sufficient evidence to make. No one has sufficient evidence. 

If anything your's is less sensible because it relies on historicism. It suffers from an induction/chicken/turkey problem. Just because a something hasn't happened, doesn't mean it won't. 

Well there's that too. I didn't know enough about it to comment. I was going to ask for a definition of 'bust'.My advice to acknowledge debt slavery. Don't do debt. Not for anything. Not even real estate.

Got myself into hot water once with real estate. Never again.

Don't do debt.Correct me if I'm wrong but isn't quantive easing a Monetrist policy not Keynsian?

Maybe it worked but has it been worth it? Have they not built themselves a house of cards?Supporting the burka is not the same thing as not supporting its banning. Its funny, Alfie, that people who habitually deny that women face any suppression in Australian culture are all over it when Muslims do it. Its almost as if they're using women's issues as a convenienr cudgel for their racism. Remove the racist imperitive and all of a sudden, they lose interest in women's issues.So are you saying societies that favour burqa wearing are less paternal?Perhaps GO could point us to some evidence that anyone seriously suggested we were going to be wiped off the map. I point out that he has made this claim in the same breath as complaining his opponents are overstating their case...Ever noticed how noone protests against a government unless the US government puts them up to it?

Ever noticed that you're a better judge of the political will of people in Hong Kong than actual people in Hong Kong?

I'll let my Hong Kong born sister in law and her family know (on your behalf) that they've got it wrong on this. They're all displaying yellow ribbon photos on facebook.According to the 2011 there are 12,000 Argentine born Australians.
