He has also very quietly shelved his great big new tax on petrol.

It would seem someone has told him that most of his budget policies are unfair and wont see the light of day.'Shorten has Labor well and truly in a corner'

Actually he has Labor leading in every state and territory and has himself as preferred PM, according to the polls.

Not a bad corner to be well and truly in.Yes Tom.

Anyone who thinks there will be much of an economic change to their lives after the Carbon Tax is repealed is living in La La Land.

The LNP tell us there will be a marked improvement in employment.

We will see.I dont know if you have noticed, but the reason why Abbott and the LNP are doing so badly in the polls is that the voting public see them as deceitful.

If anyone has no credibility, it is Abbott.

His lies and broken promises confirm that fact.

The polls are a true reflection of how people see him and his party.

Ignore them at your peril.So most people polled think they are entitled to taxpayer funded handouts.

You have evidence to back up your claim of course.Yes JB.

Abbotts $550 promise will come back to bite him on the bumb.

It will be included in the already long list of lies, deceit and broken promises he has come out with since the election.

Just another nail in his political coffin....and pull on the DD with about six months to run..

Yep, that sound like the disastrous thing Abbott would do.

Perhaps a job as one of his dozens of advisors in beckoning?Yep, that should do it......for Labor.My personal favourite is Eric Abetz.

He would be great.  :)And when do you propose Albo should replace Shorten?

Why would you replace Bill?

He has Labor leading the polls in every state and territory as well as being preferred as PM.

Stay with a winner, I say.Just a small point.

Have you seen the polls?

Labor is ahead in all states and territory's and Shorten is preferred as PM.

Speaking of unelectable, Abbotts disapproval rating is about sixty percent.

A fair reflection on the state of play, I reckon.'A DD is a one time opportunity and cant be wasted'

Oh so true!

An opportunity to chuck out this deceitful, embarrassing man and his government with him.

Australians have been burnt once and wont let it happen again.Tony told us that if he was obstructed in the Senate, he would call a DD.

He didnt add, "if I'm doing ok in the polls"

Hope this post meets with your approval.People are calling for a DD because they feel deceived by a lying PM.

They are not happy with his, full of broken promises budget.

I cannot believe anyone cannot see that.errrr have you seen the polls?

Time for a reality check I think.Yep, Bill is alive.

He's preferred as PM over your man actually, the polls tells us.

But we dont want to talk polls, do we?'Actually I'm enjoying all this'

Are you enjoying the polls?

It would seem 60% of voters hate Abbott, so if I were you, I would enjoy him while you can.Australia's seat in the UN doesnt mean much while Russia and others have a veto vote.Unfortunately it all boils down to the fact that Russia has a veto vote in the UN and no matter what Julie Bishop or anyone else says or does, if Russia doesnt like it, it aint going anywhere.I dont think the black boxes will tell us who fired the missile that brought the aircraft down.

Unless there is satellite imagery of the projectile being fired, I dont think we will ever know, unless someone owns up.

The Russians are now saying the intercepted phone calls were concocted.

If this is true then we are back to the drawing board.Trying find out who exactly fired the missile will be a huge problem, I think.

Putin has distanced himself from the separists from day one of this conflict and cant be seen to have any control over them.

The perpetrators themselves will take no notice of anything the UN may say.

The best we can hope for is free access to the crash site.

And the investigation will prove that the plane was brought down by a missile.

We already know that.Whirlwind.

All we saw of the BUK missile launcher, was of it being driven down a road.

Hardly, 'no doubt' that the vehicle has been taken to Russia.Yep, you have to wonder where some people are coming from.

Even the terrorists are not denying they shot the aircraft down.

For people to come up with conspiracy theories is very very weird.LOL.

The people on the phones spoke about shooting down a civilian aircraft with 'bodies everywhere'

You failed to mention how you know that the two conversations have been spliced together and are talking about two different incidents.

Did you actually heat them?OMG!

Did you hear the intercepted phone calls between the terrorists?

They talked about shooting the plane down.

Are  there any clear thinking people who thinks the plane WASN'T brought down by a missile?'when did Russia annexe Crimea'

A few months back.Thats true kenj, but where does it end?

Does Russia keep annexing the eastern region of Ukraine until there's none left?I thought the annexing eastern Ukraine was the main aim of Russia in backing the rebels.

Why are they backing them?

For fun?Yes, but what can the rest of the world do?

More sanctions?

I dont think Putin cares about sanctions.

He will just stick to the, 'it's all Ukraine's fault for starting this war' mantra.

Putin has a hide like a rhinoceros and will just ride it out.They have done no more or no less than any PM or FM would have done in the circumstances.

For LNP cheerleaders to try and gain political advantage from the situation, is quite sad really.What has that got to do with terrorists shooting down a civilian aircraft?

The West respecting democratically elected governments would not have made any difference.

In my opinion.Why would these terrorists brag about shooting down a civilian plane with hundreds of people on board?

They might be stupid, but not that stupid.I think the missile was fired on the off chance that the plane was a military target.

The fact that it was a civilian aircraft was just bad luck, in the eyes of the separists.The problem for Putin is, that he cant be seen to be controlling the separists.

He has denied having anything to do with them.

He has a problem.The problem for Abbott and Bishop is that people will soon forget about this tragedy.

Whereas The Budget From Hell and this governments incompetence is the gift that keeps on giving.In fairness, Joe, all we saw regarding the withdrawal of the missile system to Russia, was a missile vehicle being driven along a road.

However the intercepted phone calls were damming, in my opinion.Proven to be faked by whom?Uh Oh!

I heard him being called,  Russian Strongman Putin.

Looks like he's in trouble!That was then and this is now.

What Keating did has nothing to do with the horror budget Abbott has tried to inflict on us.

Going on about Keating makes you look a bit silly.The senate amended the Carbon Tax legislation and Tony still liked it, so it passed.

It wants to amend the Mining Tax legislation and Tony doesnt like it so it will get chucked out.
No talking, no negotiating, no nuthin.

Unbelievable!Yes, those terrible school halls.

The poor will always do better under the coalition!

Are you serious?

Perhaps you can explain that to pensioners and families who are going to have their benefits cut.

The truth is that the coalition see the vulnerable and pensioners as easy targets. 

Always have and always will.

And your spin will never change that.I dont think people are complaining about having to pay off the debt.

They are complaining about the unfair way Abbott is going about it.
It seems the not so well off and families are doing most of the 'heavy lifting' while the big end of town aren't doing much lifting at all.

They are also complaining about the fact that Abbott lied before the election and broke solemn promises after it.

People are not stupid, they know when they have been hoodwinked.Family benefit cuts

Medical cost increases

School kids bonus cut.

Pensions changed.

To name a few.Tony didn't have the guts to tell us he was going to repeal family benefits before the election.

Deceitful and untrustworthy, that's our Tony.Actually Labor's policy is the one Abbott is currently running with.

I know it galls Liberal cheerleaders, but Rudd introduced the Manua Solution of no entry to Australia and Abbott thought it was such a great idea, he adopted it.

Sad, but true I'm afraid.The only reason the resolution saw the light of day was that Russia amended it to suit themselves. 

If Russia didn't like it, it would have been vetoed.Yes, my bet is we will never know who actually pulled the trigger and the perpetrators will never be brought to justice.

All the chest beating by Abbott and Bishop will not help one bit.Hmm, behind in every state and territory, the polls tell us.

I'd say that was an utterly inept performance, wouldn't you?'Other than leading the world'!!!

You have to laugh.And another bit of truth is that Costello described Abbott as an 'economic illiterate.'

How true those words turned out to be.the egg.

Dont worry, this awful tragedy will eventually blow over and Abbott will be forced back to face his insurmountable challenges on the home front.

The lies, broken promises and unfair budget are all simmering away on the back burner.

It is just a matter of time before the heat is turned up again.The budget is unfair because it unfairly expects the not so well off and families to do the majority of the heavy lifting and unfairly lets the big end of town off with hardly a scratch.

Going by the polls, I am not the only person who thinks this way.Give us a break!

We have all seen and heard Abbott in action.

We know what sort of a person he is.

The sad facts are, that he has lied, broken promises and delivered a demonstrably unfair budget.

Why else would sixty percent of voters think that he is doing an awful job?

You're right, it is all about people's personal views, yours included.

I think most rational thinking people now see Abbott as grand standing for political advantage, regarding the MH17 disaster.

He is beginning to overdo it and people can see that.

But I suppose he cant help himself.'There is currently a switch in momentum underway...

Really?

Unfortunately Abbott will soon have to face his demons on the home front once again.

Let's see how far his 'star' rises then.Rudd?

He's not in the parliament at the moment is he?'How have the poor been adversely affected by the government?'

Well, where do we start?

School kids bonus..wants to cut

Family assistance....wants to cut

Pensions....wants to change how they are indexed.

Universities....wants to increase prices

They are the ones I can think of quickly.

I'm sure there are others.Yes, thank God Abbott adopted Labor's, Manus Solution.Yes, all very nice, but the fact remains that that Abbott has lied, broken solemn promises and deceived the people of Australia.

And that fact is reflected in the polls.

I'm sure Abbott will get the same 'fair go' he gave to Gillard.They followed Labor's lead via the Manus Solution, actually.Surely sixty percent of Australians cant all be wrong, can they?

The 'hatred' you talk about has been bought on by Abbott himself and the actions he has taken.

Unfortunately, it is very easy to hate Tony Abbott.

'Churchill- like character you call it.

Others may call it opportunistic grandstanding.Abbott has done no more and no less than what would have been expected of an Australian PM.

To paint him as some sort of God like figure is a bit silly.

The reality is that he will have to eventually face the results of his disastrous budget, the lies and the deceit.

Watch the polls go backwards for him then.Unfortunately for you, the voters of Australia dont seem to agree with your comments.

They dont see the RH PM doing a commendable job.

In fact almost 60% of them think the RH PM is doing a terrible job.

They think the RH PM is deceitful and cannot be trusted.

I have no idea why!But think of the lost grandstanding opportunities.

I'm surprised we haven't seen Abbott in hi-vis shirts and hard hats, when talking about this tragedy.Yes Ross, it makes you wonder why Russia would agree to a resolution if it didn't have something up it's sleeve.

There is more to this than meets the eye.The Russians would say that the looting had nothing to do with them and if Ukraine hadn't started the war none of this would have happened.Bishop's resolution only went ahead after Russia insisted on amendments to it.

If it didn't suit Russia, it wouldn't have gone anywhere.If Russia felt any guilt it would have vetoed the resolution.

The only reason the resolution was agreed to, was because Russia is going to come out of this squeaky clean.

In my opinion.Thank you for the spelling lesson.

Lets hope you don't make a blue in one of your numerous posts.

Be careful, very careful.They wouldn't be tying themselves in knots very often then, would they?Yep, I notice Abbott's disapproval rating is down to 56%!

Doesn't get any better than that!Yes, thank goodness we have a seat on the Security Council.

So it wasnt a waste of time and money after all?

Why does the word 'hypocrites' leap to mind?Yes, and that is Abbotts problem.

This issue will die down and blow away, but The Budget From Hell will remain and he will still be a deceitful untrustworthy poor excuse of a PM.

LNP cheerleaders should cheer while they can, because reality awaits around the corner.Why would Russia agree to a resolution that would allow free and unfettered access to the crash site if they didnt already know the outcome of the investigation?

If they thought the investigation would point fingers at themselves, the would not have allowed it to progress through.How will investigation of the crash site prove anyone's guilt?

Could one of the crash investigation experts posting here, let us all know?Perhaps you could tell us what this 'independent investigation' is going to achieve?

It is just an opportunity for Abbott and Bishop to grandstand on the world stage.

Getting a Russian approved resolution through the UN means nothing.

We know the aircraft was brought down by a missile.

The investigation will prove nothing, other than that.I dont think the recorders will tell us much.

The aircraft would have been destroyed in a split second and they wouldnt have recorded much at all.What drivel.

And even if they could, what would that prove?Just how will the voice recorder and the flight recorder be quite damming of anyone?

And you know that because.......?Yep, back to you, several times over!Yes unfortunately for Abbott, this tragedy will slowly fade away and people will forget about it, however his debacle of a budget and his deceit, will be around right up to the election.

Abbott should make all the political mileage he can out of this terrible disaster.

He will need it.Abbott and Bishop have acted as any other PM and FM would have.

To waffle on about how wonderful they are is ridiculous.

They have done the job they were supposed to do, any less would have been an embarrassment.Abbott is overdoing the, 'I'm a great guy' bit.

If he keeps it up, Australians will see it for what it is and it will blow up in his face.All Abbott had to do was handle the situation in a compassionate and statesman like manner.

Not see it as an opportunity for political point scoring and grandstanding.

I think he needs to get rid of his 37 spin doctors and get some new ones.

Some with common sense, perhaps.Abbott cant help himself.

He sees this issue as an opportunity to make political mileage.

Hence his over the top, "Operation Bring Them Home'.

Is there anything this bloke can do right?I think Australians will see through Abbott's facade very quickly and it will backfire badly for him.

He can see lots to gain from this disaster and he is already starting to overdo it.Yes they did and amended it to suit themselves.

If Russia wasn't happy with it they would have vetoed it immediately.Yes, the Russian approved resolution achieves almost nothing.

What exactly is an investigation of the crash site going to accomplish?

We know the aircraft was brought down by a missile and will an investigation tell us who fired it?

I dont think so.The difference is, we CHOOSE to access Facebook.

We all know the risks.Speaking of dysfunctional, it would seem that the Communications Minister knew nothing about this thought bubble diversion, until he read about it in the paper!

And you want to talk about dysfunctional Labor!

Give us a break.Yes, it would appear that no one in the government actually knows just how this will work.

Surely they haven't rushed it out just to cause a diversion from The Budget From Hell sideshow, or to camouflage the 18c backflip, have they?

Surely not.Yes, it would seem that his 'grave misgivings' have morphed into 'absolute delight'.

Another blow to his credibility.

'Studies from the 1950's show that to be true'

No, that's not what I said!

The person making those comments, looked  and spoke like me, but was in fact, someone else!

See!Yes, makes you wonder why Tony thought it was such a great idea.

I believe it's his policy now.Just a small point.

The LNP are running with the NBN now.

It has nothing to do with Conroy any more.

The LNP chose to adopt it, no one forced them.This is just another example of the ABCs left bias.

It should be sold off, scrapped, etc.

(Just thought I would get in early and save the whinging conservative element the trouble!)So now we have the 18c fiasco being scrapped, the 40 jobs a day thought bubble popped and now we have the Big Brother policy that no one can explain.

What a shemozzle! 

'We have many or most Muslims rejecting our way of life and prefer backwards middle eastern oppression...etc etc etc etc!'

What absolute rot!

Do you have any credible evidence of that incredible comment, or does it come from the dark crevices or your twisted, bigoted, mind?

You must be terribly disappointed that the 18c law has been scrapped.

I think the comment was tongue in cheek.

 You need to take your own advice.'Clearly bias'

That is your OPINION.

Please dont state your OPINION as fact.

My OPINION is, that the ABC is not biased.

JG is expressing an OPINION.

I am more than happy to see some of my taxes going to pay for the ABC.

That's my opinion.What the hell have the Bali bombings got to do with this country's security?

Australia's security is fine, as long as the methods to ensure it, dont overstep the mark and encroach on the average Australian's civil liberties.

Does any one know how this anti terrorism policy will work?

If they do, please let George and Tony know.Yep, it pays to know what you are talking about before going on national TV and explaining a policy.

Otherwise, you tend to look like a complete and utter fool.How the hell are employers going to get that sort of information?

It's OK to have holier than thou views, but lets see some facts.Labor has always been basically supportive of this policy.

Get your facts right.Right wing?

Yes, an independent inquiry into bias in the ABC resulted in a finding that the ABC is slightly biased to the right.

It's a disgrace!

And the ABC should be sold, scrapped etc.'I disagree with the PPL'

From your very short list, I assume you agree with everything else in the budget.

You would agree with the increases to Uni education, changes to pensions, cuts to the ABC, new taxes, cuts to education and health, etc etc?

Have a good hard look at the polls.

Do you really think all the people who criticise the budget are from the left of politics?

The budget is seen as unfair....it targets the not so well off, pensioners and the vulnerable, while leaving the big end of town virtually untouched.

Until you come to terms with that obvious fact, you are just 'winging'.I think Yank was pointing out that the backflip on 18c was just another indication of a government that does not know what it is doing.

He is offering his opinion, just as you are.

And speaking of obnoxious, if you read your post you will notice that you are spouting opinion as fact.

Time to go outside and smell the fumes.

Perhaps you could explain Labor's asylum policy.

It seems to me that most conservative enthusiasts have no idea what it is.

Their only argument is, 'it's no good', it's 'open borders' or 'open boarders', depending on which University you attended.

I'll give you a hint.

It was the one Abbott stole from Rudd, just before the election.No I mean the one Abbott said he would 'salvage what he could' from.

Not offshore processing.

It was Rudd's idea to not let asylum seeker settle in Australia and it was working.

Remember?

Tony could see that and he almost fell over himself to implement Labor's policy.

Sad but true I'm afraid.


So no idea, then.

Thought so.So you know what Labors policy is on border control, obviously.

Please let us know what it is and how it has anything to do with open 'boarders'

If you dont know what it is, perhaps you could stop with the 'open boarders' thing.

It does your credibility no good whatsoever.'I believe our welfare system is one of the best in the world'.....because of the following facts.....

Hello?'It's no surprise at all that alcohol and tobacco consume most of a welfare household's earnings'!!!!

And I know this is a fact because.......?

I didnt just make it up.Rubbish!

Where does the author say that?Where are all these jobs?

100 people applying for a job at a tip, says it all.Applying for two jobs a day is.

Just how will it help unemployment, or the unemployed?So what happens if they apply for jobs they are highly unlikely to get?

It is a complete waste of time.

It is designed to make the right wing element, feel better.Dave, stop asking technical questions.People earning over 18k pay tax.

There must be a lot of people on the bones of their bum, that's all I can say.Wrong!

The idea is to apply for any jobs, twice a day.

There is no rule to say that your application has to be realistic.

It is little wonder that the brilliant Abetz is back pedalling at a million miles an hour, from this doozy of an ides.

Another day, another back flip.Money it was going to get, but now doesnt, sounds like a cut to me.

Only the very desperate of spinners would say otherwise.

So the ALP fund Fact Checker.

Tell us more.Only a very silly pensioner would vote for a Liberal government.

The Libs see pensioners as easy targets, hence the changes to the way pensions will be indexed.

Not to mention the age and pension concessions Abbott has cut.

All this after he looked us in the eye and said, 'no changes to pensions'!

What a guy!They are bothering with DA because it is a cynical attempt to try and convince gullible people that they are interested in climate change.

When we all know that 'climate change is crap', dont we.Where did you get that list from..... Google?Well, there's a turn up!

A LNP supporter rabbiting on about trust!

I dont think the word 'trust' should be uttered by Liberal cheerleaders, ever again.Lets see now.

Abbott campaigned on 'trust', amongst other lies.

It is now quite obvious that he has no idea what the word means.

Gillard is no longer in parliament and I cant remember Shorten lying to the people to get voted in, do you?Yes Dan.

Funny that.

Also funny is the fact that this no excuses, poor excuse of a government thought that the NBN was such a good idea, they adopted Labor's policy.

And now their cheerleaders are complaining about it!

You have to laugh.I think Mike Carlton got it right!.....and now have a government that may not be perfect...

Aint that the truth!

We have a deceitful government, completely out of touch with the wants and needs of Australians.
They want to blame everyone else for the failure of The Budget From Hell.

They seem incapable of accepting the fact that this budget is seen as unfair and full of broken promises.

Abbott had the nerve to say....let me make it crystal clear....crystal clear.... I do not break promises.....I- do- not- break- promises!

The man is living in La La Land!

They lied their way to power and are now paying the price.Yep, it doesnt seem to register with the 'lifter' conservatives that they will one day become 'leaners'.

But then again, I'm sure being highly principled, they will refuse pensioner and senior concessions or top ups to their pension.

Wont they?Just a small point.

The article was about your leader and his disastrous budget.

Your feeble attempt at a diversion wont work.

This budget will hang around Abbotts neck 'like a stinking corpse', for a long time yet.

It is the gift to Labor that just keeps on giving.Just another small point.

If the NBN is so bad, why did your leader adopt it?

Really looking forward to your answer.Labor is in front in ALL states and territory's.

Including Tassie.Well, you can bet that Labor will not target the vulnerable while leaving the big end of town virtually untouched.

Labor knows what is fair and what is not, unlike your out of touch Liberal party.So you would put that good news down to all of Abbotts brilliant policies he has in place?

Tell us more.Last time I looked the mining tax was still working and your Liberal party was supposed to be in charge.

Blaming Labor for it's incompetence is rather pathetic, really.'Even if it's held now it's likely the Coalition would win'!!!

Ummm, Have you seen the polls?

Wishful thinking doesn't count.Yes, and the stare and the cat scratching are really intelligent.

She would make a great Liberal leader.

Another one out of its depth.Yep, funny how we dont hear about the lost aircraft now.

Milked to death, perhaps?Yep, but thankfully they didn't go in with all guns blazing.

That thought bubble was put to bed fairly early.Yes it is also amazing that a government can be so out of touch with Australians after only a few months.

Where will they be in another couple of years?

The mind boggles.Probably not every voter, just a very large majority, going by the polls.

Time to pull you head out of the sand and face facts.

You leader and his government have been an absolute disaster and it's only ten months in.

This budget being a very good example.'They were complaining, 'worst government ever' prior to this government even being sworn in'

And they were 100% correct, it would seem.

On the nose in every state and territory, a hugely unpopular leader and bringing down a budget that is seen to be unfair and full of broken promises.

What a disaster.Shorten seems to be doing very well.

He has the LNP on the nose all over Australia and is preferred as PM.

Nothing more to do, really.

Just sit back and watch the LNP self destruct.

Bliss!'So you do not mind that Rudd caused 1000 deaths at sea'

What a ridiculous, offensive statement.Yes Voyage,

Watching Morrison, the master of spin on the insiders on Sunday made me laugh.

As soon as he was asked a difficult question, he claimed Diplomatic Secrecy and wouldn't answer.

Liberal cheerleaders seem to conveniently forget that it was Rudds Manus idea, that began stopping the boats.

Abbott was so impressed by it, he embraced it.So here I was thinking that Rudd came up with the idea that asylum seekers would not be settled in Australia, come what may.

And here I was thinking that Abbott could see that it was beginning to work that he almost fell over himself to adopt it.

These facts seem to have been deleted from the memory bank of Liberal cheerleaders.Not sure what you're talking about there, Brian, but there are no double standards.

Abbott is reaping exactly what he sowed.All that scrutiny!

It's not fair!

Tony and his Ministers get asked all the wrong questions.

If only more journalists were like Alan and Andrew, things would be so much better.Yes, we see LNP members crossing the floor every day of the week.

Which Labor Party members have been 'instantly expelled' from the party for dissention?'Dont do deals with Palmer'!

Tony is desperate to do deals with Palmer.

It's just that he's no good at it.'At least someone  with humility, integrity and the ability to speak'

Eric Abetz comes to mind.Laugh while you can!

This government is heading for a flogging at the next election.

Who will you blame?

The media, Labors negativity, stupid voters, the polls?

Never Tony and his incompetent team of no hopers, I would suggest.Yes, but dont worry, because Abbott is going to fix that by putting a tax on doctors visits.Ted!

He will.

He doesnt want to come out swinging too early because Abbott will steal all of his policies.

Like NBN, NDIS, Gonski and the Manus Solution.I would venture to say that it wouldn't matter what sort of propaganda the Murdoch press can come up with, this government will be in trouble at the next election.

It's just a matter of how much out of touch with the community they will be by then.'Labor remains a hopeless rabble'

Are you sure?

Ahead in every poll and with their leader as preferred PM.

What  credible evidence do you have that refutes these FACTS?

And just saying so, doesn't count.'I agree with custard'

Well, fancy that!.

Bill will probably do a Tony and announce his policies the day before the election.

Until then, Tony is doing his job for him.

Please tell us more about Labor weakening our borders.

Seeing that it was Labors, Manus policy that your beloved leader adopted, I would suggest that you are talking rubbish...delivered on several major promises!"

Do you mean a watered down carbon tax repeal or taking advantage of Labors border control policy?

Those two.Ahh yes, wishful thinking, eh?

How do you think Abbott will handle the lies, broken promises and trust issues that will come up before the election.

He has shot himself in the foot and voters will not forget.

He is doomed.How do you just 'roll with the senate stalemate'?

Does that mean not getting the budget passed?

Perhaps there's a job beckoning as one of Tony's advisors?Ahhh so it's all Labors fault that this 'no excuses' government is incompetent!

That's a new angle.

The fact is that the reason this government sees itself in the mess it's in, is all its own doing.

The telling of lies and the breaking of promises, will haunt Abbott all the way to the election.

Makes you wonder why Tony loves it so, doesnt it?Yes, what was Tony thinking!Excuse me!

Wasnt it that renowned socialist, Tony Abbot, who introduced this PPL shemozzle?

He wants to pay women for having children, remember?The Public Service PPL scheme was negotiated as part of a package.

It took into account wages, allowances etc.

Open the other eye.Perhaps the women working in Woolworths should negotiate for a PPL scheme, the same as the PS did.If the PS PPL scheme is as bad as you claim, why doesnt your Tony scrap it?Well, some facts and figures to shoot down the ill-informed Liberal posters!

They seem to think that if they say it often enough, it must be true.I dont think it was sean making the claims.Yes, Tony's idea is, the less you need it, the more you get.

It's a completely stupid idea, that only Tony Abbott could think of.

Paid for by a 'levy' on the big end of town.

Cant bring yourself to say the word 'tax'?

Have a wild guess on who will end up paying for this great big new tax on business?

Clear now?Yes, makes you wonder why Abbott hasnt stepped in and ended this unfairness.

Perhaps he realises that the majority of PSs would be better off under his very own PPL scheme.Yes Oaktree.

However, the already watered down version of Abbotts foolish decision, has been 'shelved', apparently.

It is a dog of an idea, and I doubt it will ever see the light of day.Labor already has a scheme in place.I do believe it was Labors scheme.

That was my very obvious point.Ahh yes, the old, 'Women of Calibre' argument, eh?

Always goes down well.

The more you earn, the more you get!

Sounds fair.'And the more tax you pay to fund the handouts to others'

You meant handouts to pensioners, veterans and the vulnerable?'Watch Shorten and co squirm when that happens'

So, you mean Abbott wouldn't squirm if he had to drop his 'signature policy', 'for budgetary reasons'?

Labor would remind him of it, for every day of the year.

Let's hope it happens.Sorry custard, but Abbott proudly declared that his PPL scheme was indeed his 'signatue policy', when he introduced it.

And has said so several time since.

If it is scrapped, it wont be for budgetary reasons, it will be because it is a stupid and unpopular idea.

Do try and keep up.Only a Liberal enthusiast would see the scrapping of Tony's PPL signature policy, as a win.

Most would see it as a complete humiliation.

I'm not sure what the carbon tax or stopping the boats has to do with this article.

But do go on.

Would that mean all the private sector PPL schemes would have to be scrapped, 'forthwith', too?Yes Tom.

The old, 'Productivity' reason seems to have faded away.

As has his 'Women of Calibre' faux pas.

It would seem Tony cant get much right at all.



I think it's about women not losing their jobs because they have a baby.

Look past your nose.Yes Alpo, this PPL policy will quietly fade away, just like the great big new tax on petrol and the mining tax policy.

Economic management, Liberal style.So there are no innocent women and children living in Gaza, they're all terrorists.

Well, I guess you learn something new every day.I agree JB.

The innocent people in Gaza are the ones getting the raw deal here.

Not only are women and children being killed by discriminate and indiscriminate Israeli shelling, but now they have no power or water.

Last time I looked, the civilian death toll score was Palestinians Hundreds -  Israelis nil.

It's a disgrace.Those kids were deliberately targeted.

Did you see the footage?

They were running away.

It's a bloody disgrace.'You should be ashamed'

I think you're wasting your time with that one,art....why dont they negotiate for peace'

Because Israel hods the whip hand and they know they would come out of any negotiations as big time losers.'Hard to feel sorry for Hamas'

I dont think anyone feels sorry for Hamas.

Any compassionate, rational thinking person would feel sorry for the innocent people being killed.

Hamas is to blame for continuing the fight, however the deliberate or accidental shelling of civilians in Gaza must stop.

The Israelis are intercepting almost all of the rockets fired by Hamas, with there superior weaponry.

The Palestinians dont have the same luxury.Australia has picked the same side as America.

There's a reason for that.Yep, whist any country has the right to veto, the SC is a toothless tiger.

The only reason any resolutions pass, is because the veto nations water them down or change the wording to suit themselves.

'I wonder why'

Could it be that Israel treats them like dogs, steal their land and demolish their houses?So it's OK for innocent people to be slaughtered now, because of something that occurred in 1967?

Give us a break!ummmmm no.

TV footage clearly showed Palestinians fleeing.Have you seen Gaza?

Where exactly would you like Palestinians to hide?Perhaps it has something to do with the Security Council?Tell us more about how bad the economy was under Labor.

Facts about credit ratings, interest rates, inflation, unemployment and economic growth, would be nice.'Move where with what'

Bugsy, stop asking difficult questions!Why would anyone move from Tassie to Darwin?

All they have to do is apply for two jobs a day and stay there.

You dont actually have to get one.....he is heavily one sided..

Or could it be that you dont like what he is saying?I would think pointing out the obvious evils in this policy, is not whinging or being pathetic.
ideas is exposed as being a thoughtless, punitive, piece of rubbish.'Dont your just love it when that happens?'

Yes I do!They dont have to take a crap job.

They only have to apply for two jobs a day!

It's a punishment, you see?I dont remember Keating deliberately punishing the unemployed for being unemployed.

Interesting, isnt it, that even Abbott can recognise a dog of a policy every now and then, backing away at a million miles an hour.

It just goes to show, Abetz should never be allowed to get off the leash.And how did that affect unemployment?Ahhh yes, those commies, eh?

If I were you, I would check under the bed before you go to sleep each night.

You cant be too careful.It's not about moving somewhere to get a job.

It's all about punishing the unemployed by making them apply for two jobs a day.

They dont have to be jobs they want, or have experience in, just apply for two jobs a day, any jobs.

You can just see businesses with job applications up to the ceiling, tearing their hair out.

It the greatest load of rubbish so far from this poor excuse of a government.So more people applying for less jobs will help the unemployed?

You're not part of Eric's team by any chance?

You have completely missed the point that you only have to APPLY for jobs, not actually get one.

The whole thing is a sham.The government is only interested in punishing the unemployed.

Please explain how applying for two jobs a day will help unemployment?

How will the PPL scheme be a bargaining chip to repeal the mining tax.

The PPL scheme was Tony's 'signature policy' remember?

It's just another dog of a policy in the long list of Liberal failures.Speaking of loonies, just how is this policy going to help people get into work?

Applying for two jobs a day is going help how?

On the off chance you might snag a CEO position somewhere?

Give us a break!Yep and as someone said, in the country town where he lived they had a hundred applications for a job at the tip!

This government is completely out of touch with the community and it's only ten months in!

What a disgrace.Yes, those damned, biased facts!

Always getting in the way of a good conservative rant!So, it's only quality when you agree with the content?

Stick to reading the Telegraph or the Australian, there's lots of 'quality' articles in those two.

It is also stupid, punitive and will do nothing to help the unemployed find jobs.

Even Tone seems to be embarrassed by it.The way things are going, there wont be any dogs left to eat the other dogs.

But then again, perhaps that's the plan.I am starting to agree with you Trump.

With Eric' talent and public appeal, he was my choice to take over from Tony, but now with this slight error of judgement, I'm leaning towards Barnaby....apparently on 457 visas!!!!

Or apparently not.Sorry pagey, Abbott has told Abetz that his two jobs a day brain explosion will put too much pressure on businesses, so it's about to get the boot.

The next thing to do, is give Eric the boot.What is it with the Liberal cheerleaders?

Labors economy was the envy of the world.

All their right wing clap trap wont change that fact.

If they want to see an economy in disarray, they should look to WA where the Liberal government has taken the debt from $3b to $26b, lost an A and broken numerous promises.

That is a true Liberal government for you.Why do we still have Labors stable AAA rating if our debt is so bad.

We have a $7t economy.

It's not like we are on the bones of our bum.Correct Greg.

Just how Abetz was ever given a decision making position is beyond me.

Even our esteemed leader is backing away from his punitive policy against the out of work.

The Abetz idea is nothing more than a blatant push to punish the unemployed for being unemployed.

Right off the bat Abbott accused Russia of being involved in the shooting down of MH17 and it has gone all downhill from there.

He thought his tough guy approach by arming AFP at the crash site would boost his standing in the polls.

It would seem this thought bubble has burst in his face.

No one, including Angus Houston, thinks it is a good idea.

The actions of a desperate man, I think.Just a small point.

Your mob are running the country now.

So what's your excuse for them?'So yes bring them home'

Abbott is clinging to the hope that his gung ho, arm the AFP approach, will win him support in Australia.

What exactly are the AFP there for?

It doesnt make sense....usually inept, sometimes hopeless...

You got that right!

Even when he had the chance to come across as statesmanlike, he had to overdo it.

He had to try and impress us gullible, naive, fools by being the tough guy, the hero.

If he had been a bit bit measured and sensible, he would have done a lot better.Give this 'holier than thou' thing a rest, for Gods sake!

It is getting tedious!

We know where you stand.

Get over it!

Yep.

'Weeding Expert.'

Always looks good on a cv.When would they have time to apply for two jobs a day, if they did that?

This whole policy is ludicrous.

It is designed as a punishment.

Nothing more.So who actually wants open borders?

Perhaps the ABC sees your constant whinging about 'open borders', as the complete crap that it is.

Why would they waste their time?

Ahh yes, the usual ABC bashing!

Dont you get tired of it?

I'm sure most people know what you're going to say before you say it.

I know I do.The ABC is here to stay, get used to it.

You can pontificate all you like but most Australians love their ABC, I would think.

Where would we be without Sarah Ferguson asking the difficult questions and insisting politicians answer them?

Where would we be with out The Drum, where bitter, right wing zealots can vent their spleen?

What would you do without it?I'm afraid wild, unsubstantiated statements and wishful thinking, dont equate to facts.

It would seem Labor is doing quite well, being ahead in the polls and has Abbott as one of the most unpopular PMs, ever.

Whose shoes would you rather be in?Dont worry, tbo.

The draconian policies you mention wont see the light of day.

Even an old right winger like Clive can see the unfairness and the broken promises contained within those abominations.Abbott will exploit this situation for all its worth.

It's in his nature.
He cant help himself.

He has already gone too far with his 'Operation Bring Them Home' stunt.

There's no just saying 'we will bring the home as soon as we possibly can', for our Tone, he had to do the macho man thing.

People are beginning to see him for what he is, a desperate, hugely unpopular PM, behind in the polls, looking for anything that may boost his standing.

The problem for Abbott and his numerous advisers is, that this issue will not last and he will have to revert back to the Tony we all know so well.

The problem was Sir Robert, that it wasnt positive enough!

It's the mindset, you see.Yes, it's funny how Tony 'Rambo' Abbott doesnt want anything to do with sanctions against Russia.

No chest thumping on that issue.'He sounded assured...

That was because he was reading from a prepared speech, someone had written for him.

As soon as he had to ad lib he was the same old Tony.Just what crucial evidence will there be to bring the murderers to justice.

We have an aircraft in pieces with evidence that it has been brought down by a missile.

That is all.

The only way we will find out who pulled the trigger is if they own up.

And that is not going to happen.

Time to take a reality check.It's not the time for hysterical hyperbole.

It's time for common sense and measured thinking.

It may come as a surprise to you, but it's not like the movies.

We cant ride in with six guns blazing and do what we like.Tell that to the people being shelled by Ukraine troops.

Time to open both eyes, I think.Please note.

Russia has denied that it is supplying the rebels, or that it has anything to do with them.

It is a matter of he said, she said.

Does anyone actually KNOW?...what we have is Australian leadership trying to do right by Australian families'

Actually, what we have is Australian leadership trying to milk the situation for all its worth.

Sending armed police into a dangerous situation is going to achieve what exactly?

It is just Abbott and Bishop hoping we will all be gullible enough to fall for this ridiculous 'Rambo' approach.

Leave it to the Dutch, they are acting in a compassionate and measured fashion, not desperately trying to boost their images.'I have been shot at'

We are not talking Cowboys and Indians.

Sending lightly armed police into a war zone to protect investigators, is a ludicrous idea.

Thank God you're not running the show.

AFP with their Glocks, against heavily armed rebels!

Give us a break!You mean just like in the movies?

If you think lightly armed police would be any match for heavily armed rebels or shelling from Ukraine, you're living in La La Land.

It's time to get a grip.

Sending armed police into a war zone, in another country, is a hare brained idea and Angus Houston agrees with me.UN resolutions on this issue dont mean anything.

They only proceed because Russia authorises them.

And as can now be seen, they dont work.'The only obsession I see etc etc......

You haven't noticed the Liberal haters who hate the Abbott haters?

I dont think the Dutch want to send in lightly armed police, do they?'Were bringing them home'

Then of course there will be, 'We brought them home'

Tone should make quite a bit of mileage out of this tragedy, but I dont think he can make it last until the next election.

Shame really.'What a load of crap'

I know it galls Liberal cheerleaders, but lets look at the facts shall we.

Labor achieved a AAA rating from the the three major agencies, FOR THE FIRST TIME EVER!

Read it and weep!

Australia still holds a stable AAA rating as a result of Labor's economic management, one of only eights country's in the world, I believe.

The scary thing is, it has all been handed over to an 'economic illiterate'.So if pensions wont change, why change the system?

If you believe that this government isnt trying to change the rules to save money, you're living in La La Land.

It's in Liberal DNA.
It's what they do.

Attack the vulnerable, pensioners, veterans, the poor.

They're easy targets....because they were incompetent managers'

You mean the AAA rating from the major agencies, FOR THE FIRST TIME EVER and the low interest rates, inflation and unemployment?

Those incompetent managers?

And the NBN?

Why did Abbott want it so much?....never mind the polls, never mind the angst, it's the living standards and jobs'

You have to laugh!I would have thought the people being polled, were rational thinkers.

Are you telling us they are all silly?Yes Bloody.

The longer this goes on the bigger the debacle.

What is the point of sending unarmed police and ADF people into danger?

I for the life of me cant see any reason for it, other than a desperate attempt by Abbott to try and gain some credibility.

He thinks people will be impressed by his gung-ho chest beating style.

He is milking the situation for all its worth, but I think it is just a matter of time before voters see through him.Dave.

Police arent military, for a start.

How do you know these AFP weren't sitting behind a desk somewhere?

To say that these people are tough and highly trained for extreme events, is a bit ridiculous.

It's not like the moviesYes, there is no need to send any Australians to the crash site.

The Dutch are in charge, let them handle it.

Let them repatriate the bodies.

Air crash investigators and forensic investigators are all that are needed.It will be interesting to hear what Angus Houston says about sending in armed police.

He was dead against any sort of gung ho response.

I bet he is shaking his head.I'm sure Gillard would not have taken the Chuck Norris approach.

Sensible negotiations, waiting until it was safe to enter the crash site and sending civilian forensic investigators, perhaps.

Abbott is thinking 'it worked for John Howard with Tampa, it can work for me........ I'll send in the SAS'. 

The man is a galoot.Only the very gullible or naive would believe that Tony 'Rambo' Abbott is not exploiting the situation for his own good.

Why send unarmed police and ADF people in the first place?

What exactly are they supposed to do?

We know the aircraft was bought down by a missile.

We will probably never know who pulled the trigger.

The Dutch are in charge of the crash investigation.

All we needed to send were forensic investigators.

This just a desperate overreach by Abbott, he is so eager to get a lift in the polls, he will say and do anything.If it means operating in safety, yes we should wait.

It is terribly unfortunate, however putting people at risk in a war zone that your country is not involved in, is stupid.

In my opinion.True Andie.

People seem to think we can just waltz in and do what we like in another country.

We will do what the Dutch want us to do.Exactly Dove!

If people think that lightly armed AFP could match it with heavily armed rebels, they are living in La La land.

Much better to send them in unarmed if they are really needed.

Sending armed police into a war zone is insane.That would be common sense Pete.

There doesn't seem to be a lot of that around at the moment.What would they do, Sir Bill?

Stand in an open field with a six gun on their hip?Yep, 'Operation Bring Them Home'!

Sounds like something out of a Chuck Norris movie.

Still, some people seem impressed.'The sceptic in me wonders if this wasn't deliberate'

That thought crossed my mind too.

But it was more to do with Abbott telling us we are 'at war' with whoever and making political mileage out of it.I think the AFP will wait another week or so, then be sent home.

Abbotts' claim to glory will fall flat on its face.Yes Alpo,
Some people cant seem to grasp the fact that the Russian speaking eastern part of Ukraine is pro Russia.

That's what the fighting is all about.

In almost every news cast from the area, reporters talk about the population there, backing the rebels.Yep, arming a few police officers is only going to antagonise the rebels.

And what would we arm them with?

Side arms?At least you didnt mention,'core and non core' promises!

I thought the latest cop out was, 'fundamental and non fundamental' promises, not 'key and non key'.

Please get with the program.Tell us more about Labors plan to open our borders.

I for one would love to hear about it.

I thought it was Labors policy to prevent people from settling in Australia.

The same policy Abbott and Morrison thought was so good, they adopted it.Six promises kept, out of twelve made, so far!

Just how disgraceful is that?Yes, Abbott couldn't help himself!

Sending hundreds of unarmed police and ADF people to the MH17 crash site achieves what exactly?

It is nothing more than a thinly veiled attempt by Abbott to try and convey the message that Australians are in danger at the  scene and he is doing everything in his power to protect them.

He is hoping that people are gullible enough to believe him.

He will milk the situation for all it's worth and as Paula said, he has overreached on the tragedy.

And that is putting it very kindly indeed.I wouldnt think there would be too much left to loot, Joey.

Besides, when and if they finally get there, they will be unarmed.

What are they going to do, yell at looters?

No, it's just an attempt by Abbott to milk the situation for all it's worth.

Trying to make us believe that the investigators are under threat and only he can protect them.

Unfortunately people are beginning to see through him and he is making an even bigger fool of himself.You're right John, there is no budget emergency NOW.

That must be because of all the economic policies Abbott has put in place is it?

Or could it be a continuation of the excellent condition of the fiscal situation left to this 'economic illiterate' by Labor?

Hmmm?You're right Stuffed.

As far as haters go Abbott is right up there.

His hatred for Gillard was on display for all to see, day after day.

For Liberals to complain about anyone from the Labor side of politics, 'hating,' is laughable.Ahhh, that explains it!

The sixty percent of Australians who dont like Abbott are jealous of him!

And here was me thinking it was because he had lied, broken solemn promises and brought down The Budget From Hell!Abbott quietly calling Gillard, 'a piece of work' in parliament.

Abbott standing in front of the disgraceful signs, that he tried to tell us he didnt notice.

Just a couple.Where does Malcom Fraser fit in the LNP hate list?

Up near the top, I would think.'There will always be a large part of the community that will be against Abbott'

Why would that be?

Could it be that they see him as a man who cant be trusted, a man who lied to them, a man who broke solemn promises?

Are all these people from, 'the left'?ummmm?

Have you seen the polls?

It would seem the largest part of the community is against Abbott.

About sixty percent actually.Yes, Conveyancing doesn't require defending anyone does it?...you might care to read the ABC's review of Abbotts performance...

No one takes any notice of that right winged biased organisation.

The cuts werent deep enough!

It should be closed down!   

Etc.Shorten is in opposition and doing a damned good job.

He is not leading the country, unfortunately.

If he was, we would not see the public backlash from the public over an unfair budget, full of lies and broken promises.The preferred PM has Labor ahead in every state and territory.

And you say HE should be worried?Actually the great mass of the voting public decide the result of elections!

Why would they replace The Preferred PM when he is in such a winning position, only a few months after Abbott lied his way to power?

Does any rational thinking voter think his standing is going to improve up until the election?

He has done his dash, I'm afraid and it's all downhill from here....leaders show their honesty, integrity and skill....

And that is where Abbott falls down and why he is doing so dismally in the polls.

I'm afraid, honesty, integrity and skill are not Tony's forte.

People do not dislike the budget because it is tough.

They dislike it because it is unfair and full of broken promises, a fact that seems to be lost on LNP deniers.Brian.

Let me explain in very simple terms.

People dislike the budget because they see it as unfair and full of broken promises.

They seem to think the less fortunate and families are doing most of the heavy lifting while the big end of town seem to be doing very little lifting at all.

They seem to think Tony has broken solemn promises he made before the election and included them in the budget.

Apart from that, they think it's great.

So the mining tax has been repealed?

Really?I thought Palmer has all but skittled the Mining Tax.

Last I heard, he wants all the goodies the mining tax was going to pay for, kept.

And Tone was saying, no, we will keep the tax then!

Not quite, Job Done!As we see the budget slowly disintegrating before our eyes,  the Liberal spin masters out and about today, telling us that they may well allow 'minor adjustments', to the budget and how the majority of it, has been passed anyway!

They seem to think, by treating us all like fools, it will help sell the dog of a thing! 


....can the ABC do a fact check on Joe Hockey's comment...

Godd idea, virgil.

It's great to say these things and hope no one knows any different.

I find it very difficult to believe that someone could bring down such an obviously unfair budget, targeting the disadvantaged over the well to do, could have ever 'fought for and tried to help the most disadvantaged people in the community.

It just beggars belief.'I agree.

I think.Yes, it would appear Joe has a different face for for different occasions.

People have seen through him.

This budget says it all.Yes, perhaps Hockey return the favour.

And announce that Abbott PPL scheme, 'is not something I would have done'Yep, the good old PAYE worker, continue to pay the big end of town's tax for them.

And they have been doing it for decades.I thought he said negative gearing reform wasn't on the agenda.

It would seem that particular policy is more out than in, for both party's.It would seem that the polls and the public outrage over this budget tell a different story.

It seems the voter doesn't like being lied to.

And doesn't like the disadvantaged and families taking the bigger hit over the well off and the big end of town.Only 34%!

That's just wonderful!

happy days.The problem with the signature policy is, the less you need it, the more you get.

It's a dog of an idea and the longer they keep it, the better for Labor.I'm sure you will hear about Labor's policies, 'in due course'

Until then they, are an 'operational matter' and top secret.The problem with that argument is, that Labor aren't in government now.

You see, what happened was, there was an election and the Libs won and have been in power for 10 months.

It turns out that they lied to us to get into government, then broke numerous promises.

And are now behind in almost every poll in the country.

Sounds dysfunctional to me.You haven't noticed the public backlash?

It seems Joe hasn't either, he's in denial, like yourself.Little effect....except if you're poor, a pensioner, vulnerable, or a family.

It will certainly have little effect on the big end of town.Yes, there's a whiff of dissent in the air.

Seems the team dont like the vice captain, or the captain, for that matter.

Time to look to the draft, I think.Excuse me!

Have you seen the polls?

It would seem Labor are doing quite well, thank you.

I'm sure you will hear about Labor's policies the day before the election.

That way, they can dupe the people into voting for them without knowing what they stand for and then lie about it afterwards.

Sound familiar?I'm amazed how out of touch Hockey has become in only a few months.

Instead of admitting that his blatantly unfair budget needs to be drastically amended, he traipses around the country trying to convince people that it's actually, not.

Time for a reality check, I think.Except he is not pandering to everyone.

He is pandering to the big end of town.

And that is the problem.It's not the 40 cents, it's the associated costs.

A fact that Liberal enthusiasts conveniently forget to mention.

'Go to war,' now there's a diversion!

If only, eh?40cents a week?

How much do think everything else will go up by?And lets hope they stay blocked.Much IS said of fairness!

Anyone who thinks this budget is fair is at odds with the Treasury and the population at large.

And I'm sure poor people will feel relieved, now that you have cleared up the poor/poorest dilemma.How much do you think prices will increase if the PT goes ahead?

Just a rough estimate will do.It's quite obvious Joe does not give a rodents rectum about low income earners.

If he did he would not have brought down such a budget or said the things he said about poor people and cars.

Since Abbott returned, he has apologised.

Unfortunately, I think the damage has been done.I dont think there is any coming back for Joe.

He seems to have no idea how the population thinks.

Makes you wonder why Joe increased it by so much, doesn't it?I think people DO see the big picture.

They see an unpopular,out of touch government which has lied its way to power.

A government which is penalising the disadvantaged and families.

Until they realise this, this government will be going nowhere.I dont think that was the momentum being spoken about.

It was upwards rather than downwards.

But I like your momentum much better.They dont know splod.

They just say it.

To them, it sounds nice.Ahhh yes, these bludging and parasitical pensioners, eh.

What right do they have to live on this planet!You hit the nail on the head there, Alpo.

Unfortunately the chances of that happening with this mob, are zero.I think most fair minded people want the poor to get a fair go.

Not treated like vermin.

There is always going to be poor people, for one reason or another and they need looking after.

It's a fact of life and I for one am quite happy to see some of my taxes going towards their welfare.'How widespread does it have to be, to be a threat to us?'

Straight out of the Tony Abbott handbook!

'I want to make it absolutely crystal clear.....crystal clear, that I want the Australian people to think that they are under threat and it is only me,.........it is only me......... who can save them'

'There! If that doesn't get me a spike in the polls, nothing will'The WA government seem to like it.

They dont want to pay it back!

Funny that.'Having Abbott behind in the polls is something to be very afraid of...'

Only if you're a rusted on Liberal enthusiast.

It would seem the majority still see this government as an incompetent shambles and it's leader is still hugely unpopular.

I wonder why?

Rabbiting on about the carbon tax, the previous government and asylum seekers is a good indication of how desperate Liberal cheerleaders have become.You see Mark, Labor isnt in power now.

Your mob are.

And unfortunately they are making a shambles of everything they touch.

Boarders fixed..... I didnt know we had a problem with them.

The budget... which is slowly disintegrating before our eyes.

Sounds like incompetence to me.I think he is saying that Islam is not a threat to Australia, because ASIO has the means to prevent it happening.

It is only Abbott playing the fear factor card.

Cant you see that?Yes, what right do these young layabouts have to money to buy food with?

The youth unemployment is only 24%!

Stop this hysterical rubbish!What absolute drivel.

Have you been to Malaysia?

Malaysians are a warm and friendly people.

The vast majority are Muslims.

I suggest if you dont know what you're talking about, you dont talk.Perhaps Australia should accept them as refugees?That is exactly what Abbott is doing.

Only the gullible and naive would believe otherwise.'Lets have some context and perspective'

Yes indeed.

It is not the fact that people will only pay a few cents extra to fill their cars up, it is the fact that when petrol prices increase so do the prices of everything else.

'It's 40 cents a week for the average household'

Rubbish!

How much do you think prices in Coles and Woolworths and every where else, will go up?

And who says poor people WITH cars dont drive as much as rich people?

Joe Hockey?

How the hell does Treasury know how far people drive?Yes, poor people dont seem to understand that it is their own fault for being poor!Abbott returned?

Not going by the polls.

But we dont want to talk about them, do we?So the polls must be wrong then?

Abbotts disapproval rating is 54% and Labor is leading in every state and territory except QLD.

Bill must be doing something right.And how long did that last?So, it's all about the poor being grateful!

Now I get it.Please explain how the co payment will help the budget pay for health care?

I dont claim to be The Suppository Of All Wisdom on this matter, however it appears to me to have nothing whatsoever to do with helping the budget.Why have a co payment at all?

Can someone please explain?How does it help the budget?Why is it irrelevant?

Doesn't the co payment apply to all GPs?No it's not!DO you follow them around?

Instructing people as to what they can buy or not buy, is the hight of arrogance.It applies to all GPs.

I just checked.I dont believe ig either.

Surely a doctor could write a coherent comment....often because they are lonely and or bored.'

And of course you have credible evidence to back that statement up.

You just forgot to include it.And here I was thinking that the co payment was to pay for 'medical research'.

When really, it's a punishment for every one!

Only the born to rule could think that one up.Only it's not 'the ordinary punter'.

It's the sick.Speaking of hiding simple facts, how is the co payment going to help fund healthcare?Most of the $7 co payment is going towards, 'medical research'.

How is it going to help the 'demand driven system'.

Pray tell.'those many thousands of malingering patients'!

Who are these many thousands of malingering patients?

Why would you go to the doctor if you didnt think you needed to?

Someone with chronically ill kids could find it very expensive indeed.So poor people should beg borrow or steal the seven bucks to go to the doctor!

Says it all, really.Tell that to a family with sick kids.'Things are going very well'

If 'things' are going very well, why is the unemployment rate rising?A friend once told me, the way to know that a rise in unemployment is looming and our economy is under threat, is when Bobcat owner/operators start going broke.

He said they are in fact, 'the canary in the coal mine'If things are so wonderful, why is the unemployment rate rising?Yeah, thats right, Eddy.

A completely unwarranted attack, if ever I saw one.

What about us retired terrorists?

Does he include people on the terrorist pension, in his assumptions?

It's a disgrace!'a government should never be trusted completely'

You're right.

Especially this one and it's leader.

Abbott has already demonstrated that he is happy to attempt to deceive us.

Why would we trust him with anything?'You'd think politicians would be clever enough to use someone else's phone if they were going to leak on it'

I certainly hope so!Yes.

I dont claim to be the Suppository Of All Wisdom when it comes to Metadata, what it is or how it works.

(Much like Abbott and Brandis, actually)

But what I do know is, that I would not trust this government...... ever.

It has proven over and over, that little of what it says, can be believed.

Trust Tony Abbott? Sure dont.

Thats fine, if that is all the collected data is used for.

The problem is, can we trust governments to do the right thing?So the system is broken?

This government has tried to push a hugely unpopular and unfair budget through the Senate, where it does not hold the balance of power.

What do you THINK was going to happen?

To feign surprise and then get bitter and twisted, is laughable.Could it be that the Senate sees the budget as full of lies and deceit?

To say, 'no new taxes' before the election and then try and impose them afterwards is asking for trouble in the Senate, I would think.

Abbott and his government tried to pull a swifty and the Senate is not buying it.'The Greens and Labor have been obstructionists....

Well, they had a good teacher.

For Liberal devotees to start wringing their hands and bleating about obstruction, I think is a bit rich.

We had the head obstructionist telling us all, how terrible Gonski, the NBN, the NDIS and Rudds Manus Solution were, for three years, then adopting every one of them!A true disaster, is this budget Abbott is trying to impose on us.

Another disaster would be, if he was successful.Exactly!

And that is the point that Liberal enthusiasts  dont want to, address.

Until they can grasp the fact that the budget is seen as being utterly unfair, they are arguing from a losing position.

Yes, there is no doubt Abetz is on top of the shambles ladder, at the moment, with Brandis and Abbott fighting for the number two spot.

And as you say, Hockey Pyne and Morrison are also in there, with equally good chances to fill that crucial fourth place.

It's all very exciting.Matt, a true 'Labour' supporter would know that the word is Labor.

Sort of gives the game away a bit, doesn't it.Just a small point BJ.

It would seem the voters do not agree with you.

With Shorten as its leader, Labor was, until very recently, ahead in every state and territory and Shorten himself was preferred as PM, the polls tell us.

What more would you like him to do?Are you trying to tell me that Eric Abetz lacks public connection and charisma?Nice try Mark, but no cigar, sorry.

Abetz is a complete liability to this government and I bet labor hopes he stays where he is.

HE was the one who brought up this fanciful research from 1950. No one put the words in his mouth.

He then tried to lie his way out of the siuation.

Abbott said Abetz felt 'sheepish', after the event!

He could have used the words, stupid, silly or embarrassed, as well.

No, I'm afraid Eric is the kind of gift that keeps on giving, as far as Labor is concerned.Time to try and grasp the fact that your mob are in government now and are doing a rubbish job.

Sometimes it's best to put denial behind you and move on.Yes, it would seem Hockey is completely out of touch with reality.

His co payment scheme is seen as unfair and is unpopular with every one but Joe. 

My bet is, it will never see the light of day and will go the way of the 18c debacle.Not a bad level of hate there yourself H!

Best not to make exaggerated, hypocritical statements.

Only makes you look silly.Any chance she was only joking?

Some people need to go outside and smell the fumes.Have you seen the polls?

Lots to crow about there.So far the Senate has done a pretty good job.

The CT has been repealed along with provisos.

The fuel tax has been quietly shelved.

The doctor tax wont see the light of day.

The government wont negotiate over the mining tax repeal, so that looks like it's dead, along with the pensioner and families betrayals.

Cant wait for Tony's PPL scheme to come up.

Should be very entertaining.Yes, the thought of Abbott running amok with a Senate majority, is just too scary to think about.I'm afraid the intercepted phone calls between the terrorists gave the game away.

Why would anyone else shoot this plane down?

Interesting to note that Abbott's 'tough talk' has been watered down to, 'Putin is saying all the right things'.

You have to wonder exactly what Abbott actually said to Putin.'Abbott and Bishop have been superb'

Abbott and Bishop have done no more than any other PM and FM would have done.

Desperate hyperbole by LNP cheerleaders will not change the fact that Abbott and his government are deeply unpopular in this country.Yet the highly principled LNP couldnt wait to take up their seat at the Security Council.

Hypocrites, the lot of them.Actually we aren't.

The G20 decides who attends.

If Australia bans Putin, it could be a G1 meeting.I'm sure it would be a foolish move.

Other G20 country's have warned Australia about deciding who can attend a meeting.

Yep, I've noticed the difference already.

Things are so much better, now that the tax has gone!

Day to day expenditure has reduced markedly.

Happy days indeed...Australians overwhelmingly thought it was in their best interest to rid themselves of the Labor/Greens government'

Yes and how things have changed in only a few months.

It would seem that Australians now overwhelmingly think that it is in their best interest to be rid of this government and it's hugely unpopular leader.

It has thrown in the towel regarding the Mining Tax apparently.

It has come to realise there is money to be made in the long term.

So, they have repealed the Carbon Tax with all sorts of strings attached.

They have dropped the petrol Tax.

And the Mining Tax repeal wont see the light of day.

What a debacle this budget has become.Hang on!

By- elections always go against governments!

Just thought I would get in early with that excuse.

And save the LNP cheerleaders bothering.'Your rhetoric is hollow'!

Perhaps you could explain how pensioners will be better off after Abbott's, 'no changes to pensions', pre election lies?

And perhaps you can explain how families will be better of after Abbott,s surprise dropping of family assistance.

After that you could explain to poor people how they could be paying a great big new doctor tax.

Nice of you to tell us that the economy is 'getting back into stride', as opposed to the stable AAA rating For The First Time Ever, low interest rates, low inflation and low unemployment, under Labor.

It would seem people know exactly, who is oppressing whom.And consumer confidence is at it's lowest level since the GFC.

Seems you forgot that one.'Savings on boarder protection...'

Why should boarders be protected?

What have they done to be protected any more than the rest of us?'Avoiding company taxes through these 'legal' means must be stopped'

Not under this government they wont.

Tony will do as he's told.Yes Tony should be able to get away with his silly statements without being scrutinised and called to account.

Just as he did in the lead up to the election.Yep, you cant blame the voters, they took Tony Abbott at his word before the election.

They now realise they have been hoodwinked, the polls tell us.

It would seem the LNP is on the nose all over Australia, particularly in Queensland.It's Labor initiated revenue, Alpo.

It's no good.

LNP revenue is much better.'the biggest political failures in decades, etc etc etc'

Then why has the incompetent Abbott and his ineffectual team given up on getting the tax repeal through the Senate?

No talks, no negotiations, no nuthin'.

Could it be that he sees value in it, in the long term?So the Federal Government cant give money to the states for public transport?Please tell us how the Direct Action Plan is going to be good for the country and how it is going effect climate change.'The science is in'

Then what is the point of Abbotts Direct Action Plan?

Surely it is not just a cynical ploy to fool people into believing the Government is interested in climate change?'Thank God it has gone'

Only the very gullible believe their economic situation will improve markedly now that the CT has gone.

We already see company's saying they wont be dropping prices because they have 'absorbed' the cost of the tax.

The repeal of the CT is all about votes. 

Abbott carried out a very successful scare campaign.

And people were silly enough to believe him.No, he just broke numerous solemn promises after he won power.

As his Budget From Hell and the subsequent polls show, people have woken up to him and what he stands for.The Budget From hell was an attack on the vulnerable and families, while leaving the big end of town virtually untouched.

It was full of lies and broken promises and the result is reflected in the disastrous poll results for Abbott and his government.Ahh yes, the old budget emergency eh?

Only an emergency before the election apparently.

Surely only the very gullible still believe there is a budget emergency.

We still have Labor's stable AAA rating For The First Time Ever.

It's only the idiot Liberal cheerleaders who seem to think there is a budget emergency.

Time to move on.Just a small point Steve.

You see, your mob are in government now.
THEY brought down The Budget From Hell.

Abbott is the person who lied to us and deceived us.

I am not the only person who feels this way it would seem.

Going by the polls, most people seem to think that they have been deceived and that The Budget From Hell is unfair.

They think the vulnerable and families have been asked to do most of the 'heavy lifting', while the big end of town doesn't lift very much at all.

Sixty percent of people polled seem to think that Tony Abbott is a disaster as PM.

So you see, it's not just me after all. 

And I wouldn't worry too much about our economy.

As a result of Labor's fiscal policies we still have low interest rates, low inflation, low unemployment and who could forget the stable AAA rating For The First Time Ever, one of only eight country's in the world, I believe.

But enjoy it while you can because Australia is inevitably going to go down the gurgler, under the economic illiterate's reign.So it's all the media's fault that people think Abbott has lied and deceived his way to power and that his budget was unfair and deceitful?

I dont think so.Lets hope Labor does keep what it's doing....

How far ahead in the polls do you think they will be?There is hope, ozlilly.

Stick it out for the next two and a half years then we can get of poor excuse of a PM and his government.

Shorten has promised an ETS as Labor policy for the next election.

And people will see through the inevitable scare campaign from Abbott and Co.

They wont believe a word he says.
He can never mention the words 'trust' or 'broken promises' again.

Once burnt twice shy, as they say.Well why is that brilliant man and Rhodes Scholar, Tony Abbott bringing in a Direct Action Plan?

If what you're saying is correct, Direct Action is a complete waste of taxpayers money.

Surely being economic geniuses the LNP would not embark on such a fools errand, would they?Yep, you wont see the government put up much of a fight if Clive doesn't support the Direct Action Plan.

I suspect they will be more than happy if it happens.

That way, it is all PUP's fault that a policy they didn't want in the first place wasn't legislated.If climate change is a myth, why is Tone's Direct Action Plan so good?Well, I've just come back from Woolworths.

It's unbelievable!
Everything is so much cheaper!

And I can only imagine the rejoicing in Whyalla as they start to rebuild their town!

I look forward to things being so much better from here on in.

So that would mean that the 7.7b will be passed back to consumers, would it?Have a read of the Sinclair Davidson article.

That will make you feel better.Keep banging on about Shorten all you like, but he has Labor ahead in every state and territory and has Abbott disapproval rating at 60%, going by the polls.

But we dont want to talk about polls, do we?

You do already.Yep, the fact that the CEP of the FPA reckons it's a good idea, is worrying.

How the diluting of existing regulations is good for consumers is beyond me.

It's all about pandering to the big end of town, in my opinion.

Something this government does very well.No doubt Labor will announce policies 'in due course', as they are not in government.

No doubt Labor will continue with Rudd's Manus Solution.
The policy that Abbott so gleefully adopted.

Abbotts disapproval rating is at 60%. 
One of the highest on record, buddy.

He lied and cheated his way into government and people realise that they have been duped by a deceitful, promise breaking PM.

Anyone who belives that Abbott and his LNP arent in trouble are living in La La Land.Surely Australia couldnt be any sadder than it is at the moment under this deceitful government?'I think we should stay with the current mob for a tad longer'

Thankfully, the vast majority of voters don't agree with you.

They have had enough of the current mob and its leader after only a few months in government.

You cannot lie, break solemn promises and bring down an unfair budget and not expect people to notice.Makes you wonder why we are are one of only eight country's in the world with a stable AAA rating doesnt it?'They may be unpopular'

They are unpopular because they are full of lies and broken promises.

Sixty percent of people disapprove of the job Abbott is doing.

Is this a world record?'The government has conducted itself in an exemplary fashion in every respect'???

Well, how do you explain the polls and Abbotts disapproval rating?

He is fast becoming the most unpopular PM in Australias history and is dragging his government down with him.

Those of us who are not in denial, see this government and its leader for what they are....deceitful and governing for a select few.

The polls reflect exactly that.'But I join many who would like to see what Australia's alternate government has to offer...'

I'm sure you will find out 'in due course'.

At the moment, I'm sure Shorten is just sitting back gleefully watching Abbott and his government self destruct.'Labors penchant for being fiscally inept is well known'

Only in the dark crevices of the Liberal cheerleaders mind.

A stable AAA rating from the three major agencies, for the first time ever.

One of only eight countries in the world to hold that rating, I believe.

Low interest rates, low inflation, low unemployment and a completely manageable debt.

Very inept.Just a small point.

Have you seen the polls?

I suggest you have a read and see if you still have your smug sense of superiority.

You will notice that Shorten is preferred as PM, Abbott is as toxic as anyone ever and Labor would win an election.

Sorry to take the wind out of your sails.I cant claim to be the suppository of all wisdom on these matters, but it would seem to me that Clive has covered just about all the bases with his amendments.

And why shouldn't all companies which have been passing on the costs of the Carbon Tax be forced to pass on the savings?

To say 'yes we have stopped passing on the CT costs but we are not going to lower prices' just doesn't cut it, in my mind.Yes, it seems business is 'confused'.

I can un confuse them very easily.

If you were passing on the cost of the Carbon Tax, when it is repealed, you dont include the cost in your charges.

Not difficult at all.
Actually, they thought Gonski, the NDIS, the Manus solution  and the NBN were pretty good Labor policies and couldnt wait to adopt them.

Particularly as they only had a few slogans and no ideas of their own at the time.Actually, what comes to mind, is the stable AAA rating, Australia has.

One of only eight countries in the world, I believe.

That is a fact.

As opposed to the hysterical rantings of a Liberal cheerleader.Of course Abbott didn't try to obstruct Gillard in everything she tried to do, did he?

Where were you Liberal cheerleaders with your high and mighty principles then?

Hypocrites, the lot of you.'Thank goodness the Carbon Tax lives a little longer'

Well, I am a bit disappointed actually.

I was looking forward to everything becoming cheaper.

I'm sick of paying $100 for a lamb roast and I want my electricity bill halved.

And think of the poor people from Whyalla.
They can start re building their town.

Employment will rise and we will return to a land of utopia, like before this tax was introduced.

Thats what Tony told us.

He wouldnt be deceiving us, would he?Hear! Hear! Yank. 

This Prime Minister is an embarrassment.

Doesnt he know about the starvation, the beatings, the bayoneting of prisoners, the be-headings that Australians and others were subjected to?

To praise Japanese soldiers is a disgrace.Yes, I had a next door neighbour in the 70's whose father was tied to a tree and bayoneted to death by these skilful and honourable Japanese soldiers.

I'm sure there are many others out there with similar stories.

Tony Abbott is an embarrassment.'Your point of view says more about your political leanings than the situation at hand'

As opposed to your own perfectly balanced and unbiased views, you mean?'Newman will win the next election in a cantor'

I dont know what a cantor is, but the polls would suggest he is in trouble, no matter what he is in.Yes. there is another by-election coming up in QLD soon, I think.

It will be interesting to see how that goes.So the polls aren't a true reflection of how things are in QLD?

Denial....it's a beautiful thing.Yep, I bet the Liberal cheerleaders are getting their excuses together as we speak....middle of the road Australians like Andrew Bolt...

Talk about laugh!Why are the poor boarders getting criticised?

What have they done?The other polls show Abbott's disapproval rating as almost 60% and the LNP in trouble in all states and territories.

Do you wants some answers on this too?Abbott was polling poorly before the budget.

People had woken up to him and didnt like what they saw.

It is only a matter of time before his secret, inhumane treatment of asylum seekers blows up in his face.

'If a home country is no longer violent, would it not be better to go back there?'

No, not if they have been living in Australia for a number of years.

To send people back after living here for ten years, would be heartless in the extreme, in my opinion.'To pretend this current lashing out at boat people is not racially based is naive.'

Exactly Ann.

However you would never get the born to rule element to admit to that fact.'The polls at the moment may look bad for the Libs and Abbott'

There's no MAY about it.

They are terrible and are likely to stay terrible.

Abbott has burnt his bridges by lying to the community and breaking promises in his Budget from Hell.

There is no coming back now.

I
'...if Labor were to win an election, the boats would return pretty much immediately'

What a ridiculous statement.

Abbott almost fell over himself to adopt Rudds asylum seeker policy.

What make you think Shorten wont continue with it?

They dont want visibility because when it all blows up in their face they dont want anyone to know about it.

They will try and keep any bad news out of the media, citing 'on water operational matters'

It's called deceit.The drownings have stopped thanks to Rudds policy, actually.

'Does your employer know how much time you spend posting...?

Perhaps it's quiet on the conveyancing front today?'You....you people down south, you dont know what's going on.

We know what's going on up here in Queensland.

Dont you worry about that!Yep, Japan, is this governments best friend, so they tell us.

That, is along with Indonesia, the US, PNG, pensioners, families, the environment and health and education.

Trust Tony Abbott?

Sure can.Abbott is quickly becoming the most unpopular PM in history and is dragging the government down with him.

If, as looks likely, many of his unacceptable policies do not get past the Senate, he will have the vultures circling, I'm afraid.

Going by the polls, many, many, do.It would seem 62% of voters disapprove of Abbott and the job he is doing.

Only the deluded would think he is a good PM.'Did you notice'

Yes and most of us regret it, it would seem.'How on earth did he become PM?'

He became PM because gullible people took him at his word.
They thought he would govern for everyone, not just the rich.

They thought he would deliver a transparent, no surprises, honest government.

They believed there would be no knew taxes, no changes to pensions and no cuts to health and education

The rest, as they say, is history.....he is falling right into Abbotts hands'

Really?

It would seem that the vast majority think that Abbott is doing a terrible job and in fact, would prefer Bill Shorten as PM.

 Hopefully,  the Liberal Party thinks Abbott is 'clever' and keep him in the top job.

All the wishful thinking in the world, wont save him at the election.Where did you hear that doozy?

Not the Murdoch press by any chance?Surely you are not taking Tony Abbott at his word are you, Dave?

How silly of you!

His 'no deals' statement will be brushed aside by Abbott and the media.

No doubt any arrangements arrived at will be, 'negotiated outcomes' or something, never deals.

Deceit....it's what Abbott does best..That will make three of you.'Abbott only has to re-jig his budget to win back favour'

Abbott was on the nose, well before the budget.

The budget just confirmed the fact that he is unsuitable to act as our Prime Minister.As I understand it they were fleeing from a refugee camp in India.

It is hardly 'country shopping'.

Anyway, who would know what is going on?

Who knows if they were genuine refugees?

The only time Morrison tells us anything, is when he thinks it is good news for his government.

The whole situation is a disgrace.Let alone the increase in traffic in Western Sydney.Not frustrating at all.

Labor's Manus policy was and still is working.

I'm not a Christian, practising or otherwise.

I agree 100% with your comments.

What is this country coming to?It is dangerous territory because it represents us being lumped in with all the despot and loser countries who dont give a stuff about human rights.

I for one dont want that embarrassment.My thoughts exactly, Rhonda.You're right Alpo.

Abbott will  get his way with the Carbon Tax and the Mining Tax, but it would seem that his PPL scheme, fuel tax, changes to pensions, Direct Action Plan and Doctor Tax, as they stand, wont see the light of day.

The boat is already sinking, as far as this budget is concerned.'Abbott is not up to it'

Sixty two percent of people seem to think that Abbott is not up to it.

They seem to think Shorten would be a better bet.

But we dont want to talk about polls, do we?'The Labor party becomes more fractured with every year'

Voters seem to like them.

Have you seen the latest Newspoll?

Or dont we mention polls any more?You forgot, 'polls come and go'.

That's always a good standby when your side is heading down the gurgler.What's the point of electing a government which  deceives it's way to power?

Abbott and his cheerleaders think that people should forget and forgive!

Well, that aint going to happen.The ALP arent in government.

It is your LNP which is trying to get it's disaster of a budget through the senate.

Perhaps if it was seen as fair and not full of broken promises
it may have a chance.You're wrong Alpo.

It's actually one-two-three-four.

The name Barnett is in there somewhere I hope.

You seem to forget Abbotts right hand man in the Senate, Eric Abetz.

After being locked up in a room with Eric for more than ten minutes, I'm sure sure the cross benchers would agree with anything just to get out!'Most people only check their letter box and post boxes two or three times per week'

Who says so?

Explain the evidence you have to back that statement up, please.'That's why Labor is in dire trouble....'

Do go on!

Going on the polls, Labor isnt the party in dire trouble.

WA is the only state or territory where the LNP isnt behind.'It's just that the grown ups are in charge and some people dont like it.'

Actually, that should read, 'MOST people dont like it'.'I suggest that you read more widely than these pages'

I suggest you read the polls.

People dont seem to agree with you, they see the budget as unfair and full of broken promises.

Voters arent stupid.
You dont really want another embarrassing list of Abbotts lies and broken promises, do you?

Fortunately voters see Abbott for what he is....a deceitful, say anything, stand for nothing poor excuse of a PM.So why does Abbott want a Direct Action plan to reduce it, if it's so good for us?Yank,

Ben has indicated that lawyers are only the third most hated professionals  in the world and he is quite pleased about it.

Please get your facts right.Shorten wasnt 'the publics' second choice.

Only Labor members could vote for the leader.

However I do agree that Albo would have been a better choice as leader.

Shorten is doing well in the polls, probably on the back of Abbott being such a disaster, but as long as he remains PM, Shorten would be feeling relaxed and comfortable, I'm sure.'In the end a conservative govt will always do better than a left wing government because the default position in life is conservative'

Perhaps you should explain that to Australian voters, particularly those in Victorian and West Australia. 

They dont seem to agree with you'Abbott's polling results are already improving'

Abbott's disapproval rating is above 60%.

Bill Shorten is preferred as Prime Minister.

As a result of the budget, the Victorian Liberal Party is facing a wipe out.

Labor leads the polls in every state and territory, except WA and QLD, where the gap is closing.

This government is in a deep hole and all the wishful thinking in the world will not save it.

A DD would be the last thing on its mind.Given the polls, I dont think Abbott is doing much laughing at all.

I'm sure he is watching them closely, which means a DD is unlikely.

However, we live in hope.

..Abbott will change his mind...

Is that what you call it?

It seems the majority see it as blatantly lying and breaking solemn promises.

Thankfully, not everyone is stupid.

..it wont get through the lower house..

I bet it does.

It will be the only way Abbott will get to repeal the Carbon Tax.Actually, Abbott told us that electricity bills would double under a Carbon Tax.

I'm looking forward to mine being halved.Please explain how the Carbon Tax will go, if Abbott doesnt agree to Clives demands?.

Clives make believe ETS was part of the deal Abbott would have to accept to get rid of the CT.

Of course it will go through the lower house.

I thought a lawyer would have realised that.Funny, the IMF and the OECD thought he was pretty good.

They told us our economy was the envy of the world under Swan.

Now, who should we believe, them, or the rantings of a Liberal cheerleader?'You can only expect to get better social outcomes if you have a more stable and reliable economy'

Yep, a AAA rating for the first time ever.

Seems like a stable and reliable economy to me.

......Gonski and the NDIS were never funded.....

These were Labor policies.

The same policies Abbott thought were so good he embraced them because he had no ideas of his own.'Deficit has increased as a result of necessary restructuring because of Labors ineptitude and budget cover ups.'

Is that the official LNP line or your own work?

This govt has lied and deceived its way to power and the voters have woken up to that fact.

They have also woken up to the fact that we have an embarrassing, incompetent and unpopular Prime Minister.

The worrying thing is, we have another two and a half years of this debacle to put up with.A AAA rating from the three major agencies is an indication of a strong and stable economy.

We are one of only eight country;s in the world to be awarded a stable AAA rating.

I know it irks Liberal cheerleaders, but it all happened under Labor.

Under Liberal governance, WA has managed to lose an A.

So much for the LNP being superior economic managers.

What a joke that is.'Why would you think that has changed'?

Have a look at the polls.

Then try and work it out for yourself why it has changed.It would seem that Labor has the support of swinging voters going on the polls.

I'm sure they will be very disappointed not to get your vote, but it is obvious not everybody thinks the way you do.Tell us more about the economy under Labor and how they will be hammered by the conservatives.

Have you seen the polls?

I thought low interest rates, inflation, unemployment and a strong economy were good.

Obviously you dont.

And the perception of the LNP is that they cant be trusted at all, about any thing.

Nothing unfair or slanderous about that.

The budget has made that more than obvious.'Scare, scare scare and appeal to the lowest common denominator'

Now where have I seen that tactic in operation before?

Has Whyalla been rebuilt yet, or the cost of a lamb roast still at $100, or electricity bills still double what they were before the carbon tax?Yep, all he has to do is remind the electorate of the budget from hell and Abbott's lies and deceit every now and then, all the way to the election.

When pensioners realise that they are going to lose their concessions, it will be just another nail in the LNP coffin.No onshore processing of asylum seekers was Labors policy before the election.

Abbott nearly fell over himself in his eagerness to embrace the Manus solution.Perhaps you could tell your story to the people of WA.

They have been inflicted with an incompetent, lying, promise breaking state government of the Liberal variety, which has managed to take the state debt from $3b to $26b and lose an A whist doing it.

So dont talk to us about how superior a Liberal government is, when it comes to the economy.Well, just how bad must Tony Abbott be?

Abbotts disapproval rating is above 60% and Shorten is preferred as Prime Minister.

Labor is ahead in every state and territory poll except WA and QLD, where the gap is closing rapidly.

Who is refusing to face reality?I take it your post was meant to be serious?

Tony Abbott is PM and his disapproval rating is above 60% and he is not person who is preferred to do the job!

I wonder why?Speaking of lies,you didnt mention the fact that pensions wont go up as much as they did before the budget or that Abbott has removed the money for pensioner concessions.

Wait until that little doozy hits home!Nice try.

The Manus solution was Labors policy way before Abbott adopted it.
It was already working before the election.

The Liberals are 'loosing' because they are are out of touch with the average voter and this, just a few months in to their term!

Things can only get better for Labor from now until the election.

Bring it on!Why would Labor be bringing out policies this early?

I'm sure you will see their policies 'in due course'.

And I'm sure they will be fair.

Something this government doesnt know the meaning of.People are waking up to the fact that the debt is manageable and that anything this government says cannot be believed.

Tony Abbott will not be able to mention the words 'trust' 'lies' or 'broken promises' in the lead up to the election.

He has cooked his goose, I'm afraid.The problem with your argument is that rarely have the LNP had such an unpopular and untrustworthy leader.

If you think Abbott is suddenly going to become popular or gain voters trust, you are living in la la land.

The polls say it all.

This government and it's leader are in a deep hole and they continue to dig.'Shorten will not be opposition leader by the end of the year let alone the next election'

Why would Labor dump a leader who has it streets ahead in the polls and a leader who is preferred as PM over Abbott?

Abbott's disapproval rating is above 60%.

How high does it have to go before you admit that he is a disaster?'Labor's fictitious economic reputation will never be rebuilt'

A AAA rating for the first time EVER!

Says it all really.All Shorten has to do is sit back and watch the government lurch from one debacle to another and remind the electorate of Abbott's pre election lies and deceit, from time to time.

I'm sure Shorten will deliver policies 'in due course'.

Abbott is in a huge hole, disapproval rating above 60%, Shorten must be feeling very confident at the moment. 
Who cares who pays for it.

This is all about Abbott getting a boost in the polls.

No expense spared.Well said, TSI.

As usual Abbott is over overdoing it.

His plan is to hoodwink the people into thinking that the atrocities being carried out by the IS in Iraq will happen here, if we dont all join Team Australi, with him as captain, of course.

It is a ruse aimed at the gullible and it seems to be working.As I said, it is a ruse aimed at the gullible.It's quite good actually.

It's called common sense.

As opposed to the hysterical, fear based comments we read here.

EVIL conquering the world etc.

It's playing right into Abbotts hands...most people disagree...

Of course you have loads of evidence to back your comment up??What poll would that be?I think there is a leadership spot for you on Tony's team.

Even vice captain, with comments like that.We have learnt from them and moved on.

Security is much tighter now.

There is no need for Abbott's scare campaignDoes any calm, clear thinking person think otherwise?

You may wish to be hoodwinked, but I do not.No thinks there is not a clear and present danger in the ME.

However we dont live there.

In case you haven't noticed.John Howard didnt even make the list!

How bad was HE??Dont speak too loudly, Tony might hear you.You hit the nail on the head there, Yank.

It's all about the polls.

The longer Abbott can keep this scare campaign going, the better he will look.

Unfortunately, you can only flog a dead horse for so long.

Inevitably, the spotlight will come back and shine on this governments incompetence and it's unjust budget.No, it means he is at the fund raiser so he can collect the usual travel allowances.Yes, Abbott is earning God knows what, yet he finds it necessary to visit a Cancer Clinic, purely so he can claim travel allowances.

The age of entitlement is over!

But  not if you're a greedy politician it would seem.

lance, Ben knew all that.

He thinks we are silly enough to believe what he says because he is, 'the lawyer'Give it a rest with the courtroom lawyer talk, Ben.

I'm sure most people can see what is going on.

Your mealy mouthed excuses dont wash.

With a disapproval rating of 56%, he has to be up there.Liberal enthusiasts dont want to talk about 'unfair', yank.

They would rather talk about Rudd and Gillard, or the opposition.

I think it's an embarrassment for them.Yes, 'a credible LNP pathway to return to surplus'!

Sounds like something Cormann would come out with.

It's entertaining, if nothing else.'Should we fail to act, then this EVIL will flourish and it will be the end of the world as we know it'

I just added a bit to make it sound a bit more dramatic and fearful.

Wrong answer, Yank.

It's when the PM and his party are doing dismally in the polls.

That is the correct answer.The fact that they didnt hold the balance of power in the Senate have anything to do with it?'credible Liberal pathway...

That would be the garden pathway of course.Yep, opposing everything the government puts up, I mean, it's not a thing Tony Abbott would do, is it.

The crying and hand wringing Liberal are going on with, is laughable.Spot on MTB.

Perhap the Liberals position in the polls has something to do with it?

Perhaps Tony is trying to get his disapproval rating down from 56%.

Or am I just being cynical?Yank!

Stop asking difficult questions.Perhaps the pollsters should have asked the question....'Do you think Tony Abbott is talking up this 'terrorism in Australia' threat, to boost his standing in the polls?'No, he meant ripping off taxpayers.

Which is true.Australian Hornets operating from US carriers?

I dont think so.Good point virgil.

The naming of airports with extra security was all about promoting the fear factor.

If they were fair dinkum, this government would have kept it a secret.

But that's not what it's all about, is it?Yep, there's nothing wrong with a sheet of corrugated iron and a camp fire.

Although, they are both 'non income producing goods', so perhaps they are a bit extravagant too.Well, you cant have one!

There's budget emergency, for God's sake!Yes Mortan, I agree.

There are more important issues at hand this weekend, than world wars or terrorism.

Go Dockers!Yes, and all under the guidance of a Liberal state government.

Utility prices are sky-rocketing and unemployment is rising, here in the boom state.

A taste of things to come, federally, perhaps?

The ABC's PPL scheme was negotiated as part of a package.

It would seem this fact is just too complicated for conservative devotees to grasp.

Perhaps the people struggling with day to day costs should check with yourself before they buy anything.

You know, like you could authorise the purchase or not.I'm sure they're worried sick, TC.

Perhaps all the born to rule devotees could line up and have the less well off crawl around in front of them.

Like people have to do when they are summoned to speak with the King of Thailand?

That sort of thing?

Would that stop you grizzling?'Can someone define, 'less well off'?

Why dont you take a wild guess yourself, Greg?The Pubic Media has a lot to answer for.

Some of its articles are below the belt.Unfortunately the born to rule enthusiasts have become paranoid.

Hence, the, 'even the facts are biased against us' giggle.

They are going down the gurgler.

There is nothing surer.I can see Peter with his crayon in his hand, tapping away with his fingers trying to think of something positive to say and then giving up.I'm just glad lamb roasts are down from $100.

I'm not sure lambs are all that happy about it, but I am.So the economy was descending into chaos!!!

Could you expand on that comment?

You could mention, AAA, inflation, interest rates, employment,
or world economy envy.

Just a few things to help you along.It would seem the people are more than happy the way Labor is going, but not too thrilled with your mob and its leader, it would seem.

I'm afraid the dream run Abbott had in opposition is over.

Now, he is under scrutiny.

When he attends a community project, purely so he can collect his travel allowances, we will know about it.

Is it any wonder his disapproval rating is so high?Only because Abbott didnt control the Senate.Exactly!

Journalists would find it extremely difficult to say anything positive about this mob.

Certainly not the budget, or its standing in the community.What about 'port and starboard'?

Would that be OK?...was always prefaced...'

What rubbish!

The problem for Liberal cheerleaders is, that they expected Abbott to cruise along, without scrutiny or being held to account, as he was in opposition.

They seem to think that because he is the PM, he should be given free rein.

He should be able to bring down an unjust budget, make ridiculous comments, or claim travel allowances for dubious reasons and no questions be asked, in their eyes.

Thank God we have the ABC, that's my opinion.What's the latest score in NSW, John?

Any idea?

I cant keep up.The only people talking about 'delaying economic reform' are conservative enthusiasts.

It's a diversion from the real issue, the one they dont want to talk about,.... the unfairness of this budget.

Talk about any thing else, but not the unfairness.

Pathetic really.Instead of making wild unsubstantiated comments, perhaps you could tell us how well Labor's PNG Solution is working in deterring asylum seeker boats.

Yep, no refugees settled in Australia.

Working very well indeed.'We get the government we deserve'

What did we do to deserve this lot?No thanks to Abbott at all.

He didnt hold the balance of power in the Senate.

Can you imagine what it would have been like if he did?

No government legislation would have been passed.

He is the most vindictive, bloody minded political leader, we have had for a very long time.I would have thought the Greens and Labor held the balance of power in the Senate.

However, if you can tell us how Abbott controlled the senate, I for one am willing to listen.And now present day Labor is returning the favour.He seems to be doing pretty well in the polls.

He obviously has Abbott on the back foot, going by the diversions he has dreamed up.

No, Bill is going OK.

Not much more he can do, I think.Yes and you would think if our debt was so bad, we would not hold a stable AAA rating.

One of only eight countries in the world to do so, I believe.

The 'budget emergency' and the 'debt crisis'.... both designed to dupe people into thinking we are in dire straights.

Fear....it's what Liberals do best.Rudd isnt even in parliament any more, so rabbiting on about what he did or didnt do is irrelevant.

Abbott and Hockey are trying to get their deceitful budget past the Senate and have no idea how to do it.

The old ploy, the 'budget emergency' seems to have morphed into a 'budget problem', now.

Most people can see through this sham, thankfully.Well, if Costello wrote it, I'm sure it would be unbiased and balanced.

Wouldn't it?Exactly yank.

The born to rule devotees seem to think the disadvantaged and families should shoulder the brunt of the heavy lifting.

It's a fact that they, Abbott and Hockey cant seem to grasp.

They cant see that this is why this budget is so unacceptable to most people.Yep, you get it Ted.

It's the government that doesn't.Yep, it would seem that this government is in full scale denial.

That, or they just dont know what is going on.

Palmer has said that the co payment is dead, buried and cremated, yet we have Hockey doing a Neville Chamberlain and telling us there is still hope for it!

What the hell is going on with this government?The people who dont pay for health care are POOR!

Why is that so difficult for greedy, selfish, conservatives to understand?'Why this obsession in Australia with every little utterance by a politician'!!

You have to laugh!What rubbish.

The fuel tax...the one we were promised wouldnt happen.... will steadily increase.

It is not the filling up of the car that is the problem, it's the associated rise in costs.

The price of petrol increases, so does everything else.

Something Libs dont want to talk about.And he seems to be doing a very good job of it, going by the polls.

Tony is doing it all for him.Hang on!

'The only poll that counts is on election day', or 'polls come and go', thats what Libs have been telling us for the past 10 months.

Make up your mind!I dont think the ALP represent the doctors union and they arent happy with this government....I hope you know how to use weaponry...'

Well, YOU'RE on Abbotts team, that's for sure.

Vice captain perhaps?

The Team needs team players like yourself, players that will adhere to the team's game plan.

Well done.No one I know.Exactly Claire.

Abbott's idea is to instil fear in the population.

He suggest that if we dont join his ludicrous, Team Australia, there will be be-headings in the streets.

A desperate ploy by a desperate PM, behind in the polls and disliked by the majority of Australians.Does anyone really believe the budget doesn't favour the big end of town to the detriment of the disadvantaged and average families and is therefore unfair?

Seriously, does anyone?Look up Treasury's  figures on winners and losers in the budget.

It's all there.

Read it and weep.I'll put that in, in my next post.

It's very appropriate.Abbott and Hockey are so out of touch with the way the average Australian thinks, it is not funny.

Hence The Budget From Hell and its continual festering.

The only person in the Liberal government with an ounce of common sense is Senator McDonald
He seems to be a down to earth bloke, who is actually aware of what is going on in the community.

While Abbott and Hockey have their heads in the clouds, living in LaLa Land.

Hockey wasnt talking about poor people having less teeth.

He was talking about the Collingwood cheer squad.:)Please explain how the questions asked can be 'push polling'?

I dont think you know what push polling is.

If the survey answers dont agree with your own political views, it must be push polling.

Pathetic!Bias much?

Yep, as some Liberal enthusiast said, 'even the facts are biased against us'!

What exactly is wrong with the survey?

Is it the questions, or the answers?

Has the thought entered your head that people see this government for what it is and answer surveys and polls accordingly?That's the whole idea!

It's us against them, with Tony as the captain.

It's about fear. 
Doesnt matter what sort of fear.

Only Tony can save us.

So please vote for him.Well if you earn the money, you pay the tax.

I dont earn much, but not being greedy, mean spirited or cold hearted, I am quite happy for some of my taxes to go towards helping the not so well off.

I dont grizzle about paying my share of tax.

And I dont expect a 'thank you' note from anyone.

Get over it.

'All the Liberals need to do is mention the ALP's broken promises....'!!!!

Are you serious?

Surely even Abbott wont be silly enough to mention, 'broken promises'.

Or the word 'trust' for that matter.

This unfair budget is decomposing before our eyes.

No co payment, no fuel tax, no repeal of the mining tax, without conditions, no changes to pensions.
Clive has spoken.

No, it's over I'm afraid.
This budget has gone as far as it ever will.





They just got a bit more boring.'Every economist.......'!!!

Do you have evidence to back that comment up?

Or could it be just another wild, unsubstantiated rant from an LNP enthusiast?What is not a myth, is that those economic geniuses in WA, the State Liberal Party, lurch from one fiscal disaster to another.

The latest being another leading agency downgrading our credit rating.

That makes two.

These economic vandals have taken the debt from $3b to $26b, with virtually nothing to show for it.

Here in the boom state, we have out of control utilities prices, choked roads, broken pre election promises and lies.

Liberal governments are superior economic managers than Labor?

I dont think so!Yes, but not from all three of the leading agencies.

Labor did it.

For the first time ever.

In this particular race, there is no prize for second.Abbott would love to have boots on the ground.

That way he can be seen to be fighting for freedom, justice and the American way.

He would be our hero, protecting us from evil and hopefully, getting a much needed lift in the polls.This what happens when the bloody unions get involved!

The AMA should recommend that the co payment be scrapped altogether.

Tinkering around the edges will not get it through the Senate.

It's time for a reality check.You are not the first person from the bush to tell us this, Oaktree.

It seems it's not just city dwellers who are fed up with this government.Here's an idea from left field.

Perhaps Bill could come up with a FAIR budget where everyone shares in the heavy lifting.

A novel approach for Liberal enthusiasts I know, but it just might be accepted by the people.

What do you think?A great idea!

I wonder why they don't do it?

Could it have anything to do with the polls, or The Budget From Hell?The only people who think the unfair budget is not still topical, are Liberal enthusiasts who wish the problem would just go away.

Ian McDonald, the Liberal Senator, seems to think the budget is still an important topic.

He seems to think his party should drop or re think the controversial and unfair elements of this dog of a budget.

He is the only member of the Liberal Party with any sense and who's game enough to speak up.
'The Abbott government would be happy to draw out this 'budget nightmare as long as possible'!!!

I take it you were serious with that 'quality' comment?

This budget is like a running sore for your Liberal Party.
Already we see people suggesting dropping, cutting and rethinking. 
As long as it is in the spotlight, the better for Labor.

It seems an unfair aspect of it, is being unveiled on a daily basis.

I bet the Libs are sorry they ever came up with such an abomination.....everything is going along swimmingly...

Are you feeling OK, Brian?

Haven't you seen Cormann on TV, desperately trying to spin his way out of this calamity he has helped create?`

He repeats the same robotic line without taking a breath.

He thinks that if people hear the same spin often enough, they will suddenly believe it.

No, this government is in trouble.

With this budget and in the polls....and this extra cost will rise with CPI.'

And so will everything else.

What will be the knock-on effect of regular increases in fuel?

Things wont be cheaper, that's for sure.Yes, having an opposition that opposes can be a real bastard, cant it?
So is a bit of scrutiny.

The budget is seen by most Australians as unfair, full of broken promises and unwanted ideological policies.

Unless the Liberal Party come to terms with this fact, I dont believe this budget will be going anywhere. 

Alpo, these polls are all biased against the LNP!

And you dont seem to realise that when you're heading down the gurgler, 'there's only one poll that matters', or 'polls come and go.'

See, they're easily explained away.Shorten has Labor ahead federally and  in nearly every state and territory in the land.

Abbott's disapproval rating is around 56%.

When you have the majority of Australians thinking your opponent stinks, why would you change leaders?

Perhaps you could broaden your circle of friends and get a better perspective on what is going on?Yes, 'if', 'but' and 'would have' eh?

If Labor had won the election!

If Swan was still the Treasurer.

Would have pressed ahead...

Would have condemned...

The sad fact is, that your mob are in government now.

And making a shambles of it.

No, the people dont like it and dont want it.

It may come as a surprise, but the budget is seen as, UNFAIR and full of, BROKEN PROMISES, by most Australians.

Time to plough it in and start again.Denial!
Isn't it a wonderful thing?

Until Libs can grasp the fact that this budget is seen as unpopular, unneeded and unwanted, they will continue to languish in the polls.

Why do they think they are, where they are now?I think Abbott would rather 'die the death of a thousand cuts', than negotiate with Labor.

The sight of him going cap in hand to Labor to negotiate will not happen, in my opinion.Yes, I'm amazes they don't call a DD, if that is the case!Yes, Gr8pe, exactly!

Tony thinks the only way out of this hole he has dug for himself is to instil fear into the community.

He thinks if he can just dupe the people into being fearful about something,.......anything...... and make us think he will be our saviour, he might get a lift in the polls.

Unfortunately the naive and gullible out there will believe him.Chuck, I hope Labor are not being negative for negatives sake!

That would be terrible!You and I have more important issues to deal with than the NBN.Actually I was referring to the fact that burke and I are Dockers supporters and we have far more to worry about than the NBN, or the state of the country or anything else!'Press barons dont sell news any more - they make it.'

You forgot to add the word, 'up'.

We would see anti Gillard 'stories' on a daily basis from Murdoch's so called journalists.

Strangely, their 'sensational  expos'e' would not see the light of day in any other news outlet.

And sadly, a lot of people believed them, so we are left with the government we have today.Funny!

I thought it was news.Yes Alpo.

I wonder how long it will take Rupert to realise that he is backing a loser.

Will he hope to influence the naive and gullible and continue as he is, or will we see a change?That's a new approach!

A great thought.

But of course, as Lib cheerleaders tell us with regular monotony, the poor dont pay taxes, so they get it for free.

Lucky them....as the lefties always need someone to blame for reporting their abject and mis-steps and failures'

And clearly you dont like hearing about your mobs daily stuff ups on the ABC.

It seems because they report on them, it's their fault!

One thing is for certain....the LNP and Abbott will never be put under any sort of intense scrutiny by Murdoch or his journos.News reporting was at its best when 'The Truth' was still being printed!

Ahh yes, they dont make 'em like that anymore.Yes, Matt.

I'm sure their opinions would be greatly appreciated on Rupert's forums.

No need for facts or coherent comments there.

Say anything you like, as long as it's anti Labor.Hang on!

Didnt Tony promise us all that there would be no cuts to the ABC?

Dont tell me he lied?Chucky.

Actually, one fact that the amnesia prone Liberal enthusiasts cant remember, is that the ABC has carried out independent research, which revealed it is biased slightly to the right.

So until you can come up with some credible evidence which suggests otherwise, I suggest you cease your unsubstantiated rants against the ABC and stop making a fool of yourself.Short memories!

EVERY news outlet was down on the Gillard government.
While Tony was able to ride along, with the media hanging off his every slogan. 
No scrutiny for Tone, no tough questions, no one insisting he answer the question being asked.

NOW, when the blow torch is applied, he, his party and their supporters cry foul!

They don't like scrutiny or being kept to account,.....they're not used to it.'A breath of fresh air?'

Have you seen the polls?

The majority of voters dont think the air is very fresh at all.No, Australians aren't buying it.

Abbott and Hockey thought they could dish up anything they liked and we would all agree with it.

Taking the voters for granted was never going to work and now they are left with a decomposing, unpopular, unfair, shambles of a budget.I'm sure the 'self interest test' could be applied to the wealthy and big business, too.

An large proportion of the population couldn't give a rats about how good the economy is, they simply care whether they are going to get richer than the next person.Mine too.Who exactly wants to close their eyes and minds to radical Islam?

What a ridiculous thing to say.

If you want to see grisly photos, buy your Tele.Where would you like Hamas to go in Gaza to fire their rockets?

Out in the countryside?Exactly yank.

Abbott is desperate to create a long lasting diversion.

He thinks by using emotive language and instigating fear, he will improve his position in the polls.

I'm sure most clear thinking Australians will see this cynical ploy for what it is.I'm sure if radical Muslims wanted to, or could have, wreaked destruction in Australia, they would have done so by now.

They dont need Tony Abbott to suggest the idea could happen here.Yes Coogara,
I think the aim was to draw the US into the conflict more than it is, by putting boots on the ground.

I dont claim to be the suppository of all wisdom on military tactics, but why not just bomb them to oblivion?
Bombing seems to be working so far.

And it would seem smarter military people than myself, agree with me.

With drones firing laser guided rockets, targets can be pinpointed.

Worth a go, I say....far more in favour with mainstream Muslims...

Have you any evidence to back up that extraordinary claim, or is it all your own work?Yep, cant wait for Abbott to tell us that, 'this election is all about trust. Who do you trust?'

However, I dont think even he will mention the words 'trust' or 'broken promises' in his campaign.

Then again......What a shame he doesn't know anything about them.You could also tell her about the AAA rating we had for the first time ever, an economy the envy of the world, with low interest rates, inflation and unemployment.

And all this, straight after the GFC AND all under the guidance of Mr Swan!

I'm sure she'll be impressed.What's wrong with Team Fremantle Dockers?

Now there is a team Tony could base HIS team on.

Strong, courageous, fair and above all, a winner!

Go Dockers!
What sport was that, Tiddlywinks?

So you would be happy getting flogged every week because 'it doesn't matter if you win or lose, it's how you play the game?'

Give us a break!....unite for a common goal'

Dont you mean, 'dupe the people into supporting me?'Yep,

Thank God I'm an atheist.

That's what I say.You sound like a 'Johnny comes lately' atheist, to me Jones.

I'll have you know I have been an atheist since Adam was a boy.

Which restaurant do you have in mind?

Ahhh, now I get it!

Even the facts are biased against you!

If it's not the facts, it's the bloody ABC!

I have credible evidence to prove that all of those people pushing the train were Team Dockers supporters

There's a stat you missed. Jonathan.Yep, you cant take any notice of opinion polls.

Especially when your on the losing end of them.Who's bloody well angry?They became bizarre and pointless when they didn't align with their right wing thinking.

Simple really.No, this issue is a storm in a teacup and will only take the focus off Abbott and his government for so long.

He still has the budget weighing him down and the longer he lets it go on, the better for Labor.Isn't wishful thinking a wonderful thing?
When Labor was doing badly in the polls, it was all we heard from the born to rule element.
Now, polls dont matter so much, it would seem.
Funny that.'Everyone' knows they will open the borders....

Well I dont.

Their border policy under Abbott, seems to be working quite nicely.
No asylum seekers will be settled in Australia, wasn't it?

Did you mention corruption?

Now that's a very silly thing to do, going on what is happening in the NSW Libs.

No doubt Bill will reveal all of Labors policies closer to the election, or 'in due course'.

He will govern fairly for ALL Australians, not give the big end of town a free run.

It would seem Abbott not only hates the WHITE working  class but every other colour as well.So we can all look forward to a rise in LNP polling then?
Cant wait for that one.
I would suggest that the budget being stalled has all to do with its content.
Until Abbott realises that his Budget From Hell is unfair and full of broken promises, it will stay stalled. IMO.A double dissolution can be called at any time legislation (called a trigger) is not passed by the Senate and after a certain period of time.

It doesn't have to be a supply issue.

(I just looked it up) :)Tone promised us one if he didn't get his own way.

Seems to have slipped his mind after he saw the polls.Yep, I'm surprised most of the Liberal enthusiasts here, arent fawning at his feet.So Labor is unravelling?
Things are really getting desperate in the Liberal ranks, it would seem.
Coming out with statements like that, confirm just how distressed you have become.Yes Percy,

With all of Clive's faults, he seems to have some compassion and a sense of what's fair and what's not.

Good on him, I say.Ahh yes.

Deep down people seem to realise that this budget along with its creators, are a shambles.

If they didnt, this so called government would be where it is in the polls.

All the spin in the world is not going to change the fact that people see the government and its leader, as doing a crap jobThe only greed is coming from the born to rule brigade who dont want to see any of their tax going towards helping the disadvantaged.

Now THAT, is really disgusting.And all because of the wonderful policies Abbott has in place, I suppose!You mean the debt problem which only exists in the minds of Abbott and Liberal cheerleaders?Hockey also said poor people dont spend much on petrol.

Care to expand on that doozy of a statement?So, as most poor people live in outlying areas, how do they get to work, or anywhere else for that matter?

Try and see past your nose.An ever increasing fuel tax is a dog of an idea.

All it will do, is increase the cost of everything else and it will be ongoing.

No, it's a dud.The NBN and the NDIS?

Didnt Abbott adopt those policies?Not every disabled person has an obvious physical disability.

If you have evidence that the system is being rorted, lets hear it.....the better economic managers...

I think the people in WA would take issue with that suggestion.

In the boom state we have a government which has taken the debt from $3b to $26B, lost an A, lied and broken election promises, claiming 'there's no money'!

WA should be riding the crest of a wave, instead, we are almost going under.'You cant go through life continually upping the limit on your VISA.'

Best you let Joe know.'the ALP trashed the country...'

Funny, I thought John Howard said our economy was in good shape.

But do go on.Yet they still managed a AAA rating for the first time ever and an economy the envy of the world!

Amazing, isnt it?You seem to have 'push polling' on whatever is left of your brain.

Tell us how the questions asked, were push polling.Speaking of idiots, exactly where are any of the questions, 'push polling'?

Do you even know what push polling is?My goodness, what mess would that be?

Apart from the one that lurks in the deep crevices of Team Liberal cheerleader's minds?I notice you didnt answer the the question.

Why would that be?

Cant think of an answer that makes any sense?Yep, a negative opposition is a real bastard, isnt it?

I mean, it was not as if Tony was against every idea and policy Labor came up with, was it?

The very simple fact is, that this budget is seen by most Australians and the cross benches as being unfair and full of broken promises.

It would seem Libs and their cheerleaders cant seem to grasp that very obvious fact.Yes, one can but dream!If they knock back this budget, they wont get the blame.

They will be congratulated.He achieved a AAA rating from the top three agencies, FOR THE FIRST TIME EVER!

Something Liberal economic geniuses could only dream about.

And I do believe he achieved an economy the envy of the world, during the GFC.

Still, who would believe the OECD and the IMF when we have Liberal enthusiasts here, telling us otherwise?Alpo

I disagree!

What about Eric?

People dont seem to consider him, for some reason.

He has the talent, the charisma, the public appeal to do the job.

Dont write him off!



Abbott has the youth unemployment at above 20%.

Perhaps that has something to do with itIf you want to see a laughing stock, take a look at the Liberal leader in WA.

He has taken the state debt from $3B to $26B, lost an A, broken promises and lied.

Please dont tell the people of WA that Liberal governments are better economic managers, than Labor.

They might get violent.Wasn't he congratulated for attaining an economy that was the envy of the world, by the independent OECD and the IMF?

Now, lets see.
Who should we believe, them, or the rantings of a Team Liberal enthusiast?The electorate will get to pass judgement, only this time it will be on Tony Abbott.

The bloke who lied to us all and broke solemn promises.

Should be fun!If you want an example of UNfair, have a look at the budget.

The treasury tells us that the disadvantaged will be worse off than the wealthy.

That's unfair.Braying about Rudd and Gillard when they are not even in parliament any more, is a good indication of how desperate Liberal enthusiasts have become.

I'm sure some of them think they are still the opposition.Bishop may as well have a go at trying to sell the budget.

Abbott, Hockey and Cormann have tried and failed miserably.

The problem for her, is that it's not the selling that is the problem.

It's the budget itself and until this government come to terms with that obvious fact, they are pushing it uphill....aren't doing too badly!!!

Are you serious?

Have you seen the polls?

Lets face it, this government is a shambles.

If it isnt Joe telling us that poor people dont spend much money on fuel, or Eric telling us that applying for two jobs a day will help unemployment, to Tone telling the Scots how they should vote!

That is the kind of 'action' we are seeing.Ahh yes, the old, 'there's only one poll that counts' argument, eh?

I'm surprised you didn't add, 'polls come and go', that's another favourite of Liberal cheerleaders.

Funny isnt it?

When Labor was doing badly in the polls before the election, it was all we heard.

Now it's a matter of, 'dont mention the polls'!WOW! 

Two successes!

And The Budget From Hell,  is decomposing before our very eyes.

This government is in big trouble and it would seem it is only Libs, who cant seem to grasp that factNow watch the grovelling begin.

It will be interesting to see just how 'minor' these 'adjustments' are.

Time to plough it in and start again, I think.Yep, she also wanted the AFP going in to the crash site armed!

That gung ho approach might work well in fooling the gullible voter in Australia, but did not impress the Dutch leader of the push, it would seem.

Lets see how long the, 'bring those responsible to account' lasts.
Not much talk of it lately.

My bet is it will go the same way as MH370.

Just fade away into the distance.

There's no votes in it any more.

It's been milked to death.So all those people polled were kids!!

That's a new approach!

As we see the Liberal brand on the nose all around Australia and their leader despised by the majority of Australians, Conservatives are desperately trying to come up with a new angle.

But that one is a bit TOO ridiculous.I bet Labor is rubbing their hands together at any talk of Bishop being leader material.

Those of us without the LNP affliction of selective amnesia will remember what a complete debacle she made of the shadow Treasurer position.

She was so bad it was embarrassing and she had to be quietly given the boot.

yes, bring her on, I say.'Just brilliant'

Unfortunately, you constantly saying she is 'brilliant', doesn't make it so.

Her performance as Shadow Treasurer wasn't so brilliant.

It was so bad and embarrassing, she had to be sacked.

Thats how brilliant she was thenI think the idea is, when the Senate says no, we dont like that policy because......., it is the government who is supposed to go away and come up with alternatives.

It seem the cant do that.Moving Julie to 'Sales' is not going to fix the problem.

Do they really think people will suddenly buy this dog of a budget because we have a different salesperson?

Is she going to tell us that the budget is actually fair and contains no broken promises?

Good luck with that!Yes, she had to be dumped from the Finance job, because she became an embarrassment.

And now she wants to sell the budget!

Perhaps she should go on the 7.30 Report and let Sarah Ferguson interview her?

No?

Thought not.Yep, gotta fix that economy!

Perhaps you could explain why Labor's economy needs fixing?If Parker is the best the Liberal Party can do, it really shows how far they have slipped.Yes, I think there would have been  lot of sniggering going on when G20 leaders were privately discussing Abbott's performance.

I bet they are still trying to get their heads around the failed shirtfront comment and his speech whinging about domestic issues.

What an embarrassment.Perhaps you could provide evidence proving your, 'Abbott has won praise...' claim?

All I saw was him being cajoled by Obama over his pretend climate change policy.When you say, 'read more widely' do you mean the Murdoch press?

If so why didnt you just say it?What rubbish!

Tony Abbott has an open invitation to appear on the 7.30 Report.

He wont appear because whenever he is asked tough question, he usually make a fool of himself.

You see, what happens is, when you're the Prime Minister you're performance will be analysed and reported on.

It has been the same for ALL PM's.

The fact that this PM's dream run in the media while in opposition has not continued, should be of no surprise.

His shortcomings have been exposed for all to see.

He is seen as an untrustworthy embarrassment, with 50% of voters unhappy with his performance.Yep, if you want balance, The Bolt Report is the place to be.'Well done PM Abbott'!!!!

If you mean well done for embarrassing the rest of us with his ridiculous 'shirtfront' comment or his speech to G20 leaders whinging about the fact that he could not get his budget passed in the senate and boasting about how he has not realistically addressed climate change, then yes, well done PM Abbott.The rights main excuse for not addressing climate change in a meaningful manner, has just flown out the window.

Now they will have to think of a new one.Abbott has brought on this ridicule himself.

If we had a statesman with credibility as our PM, perhaps he wouldn't be in the position he finds himself.So he provide a missile launcher to down a civilian aircraft!

Really?

Tell us more!That's right.

All we got was a one sided statement from Abbott's spokesperson.

Not a mention of what Putin said.

I wonder why?Actually Tony said he was going to 'shirtfront' Putin, not, 'front'.

All we know is, he spoke to Putin.

We have no credible evidence whatsoever to indicate what was said.The photos were released by Russian media.
 The warships were in international waters.

That makes Putin a hothead???Perhaps Shorten was alluding to the fact that he would not come out with an absurd  'shirtfront' comment?Yes, funny that!

Instead he came out with a bizarre speech, whinging about the domestic problems he brought on himself!

What an embarrassment.Factory workers earning $100k plus salaries!

Could you expand on that?Well, he is hardly going to call him an embarrassing fool in public, is he.

He will save that for the trip home on his aircraft.'Well down to our PM. An A grade effort'

You have to laugh!

It would be only the thick skinned and  deluded who didnt think Abbott was a complete embarrassment.

He had an opportunity to shine, however he could not help himself and had to come out with the shirtfront thing and then topped it off with the incredible bellyaching speech about domestic issues!

Peta Credlin needs to lift her game.He should certainly not be seen walking.I'm afraid you version of a shirtfront is typical of someone who has never received one or dished one out.

A shirtfront is running at speed head on into another player and crashing in to him with your hip and shoulder.

After receiving one, a player normally takes a long time to regain his feet.

Does that sound anything like Tony's shirtfront?

From what we have heard, he meekly asked Putin for an apology , if in fact he had been involved in the downing of the aircraft.

It was stupid thing to say in a desperate bid to gain domestic political advantage.

Nothing more.Is there any chance the ABC is telling it as it is?

Is it a case of the right not wanting to be confronted with the truth?

The polls indicate Abbott and his government are unpopular.

Are you surprised they dont receive fawning press reports?

The truth hurts, as they say.

Shorten is not the PM.

The walking embarrassment Abbott is.

He is the one representing us.

Unfortunately.I think I see the flaw in your argument!

It would seem the vast majority of Australians dont like the job he is doing and would prefer a Labor government, the polls tell us.

That is a fact.Well, perhaps you should pass your findings on to the Dutch investigators, because they seem to be still investigating.I disagree.

Mr Abbott has been an embarrassment and the families of the victims of this tragedy deserve better.

This whole sorry story is all about his intention to try and boost his standing domestically, in my opinion.

His stupid shirtfront comment being a good example of it.

His spokesperson made a one sided statement on what was said.

We still haven't heard what Putin said in reply.

That is the really interesting thing!...stand up to Putin'

When did he do that?

All reports were that he asked Putin to apologise if he in fact was responsible for downing the aircraft!

Hardly a shirtfront.

Unfortunately your prediction doesnt matter much.Abbott has brought this on himself with his ridiculous, desperate attempt to garner favour with voters.
 
It was he made the 'shirtfront' remark, not the ABC.

Abbott did not even have the guts to tell us what he said to Putin, or Putin's response.

All we got was a one sided version of the conversation, from one of his many advisers.

Apparently Abbott knows who shot down the aircraft and demanded an apology from Putin, even though the investigation is ongoing.

What an embarrassment this PM isThe only thing pathetic with this issue is Abbott and his attempts to gain political mileage out of this tragedy.

His, 'shirtfront' comment was exactly that.

Why else would he say it?

Now, he wont tell us what transpired between himself and Putin.

This whole shirtfront embarrassment has backfired badly.As long as it wasnt shirt lifting.It would seem the alternative well and truly enters the equation in the minds of voters.

And unfortunately for the LNP, they are the people who count.The 'shirtfront' comment has only become 'an amusing irrelevancy' in the eyes of conservative enthusiasts, because it has grown into a huge embarrassment for them.

Wishing it will go away is not going to work.'I understand that they had words....?

I understand we have heard one side of what took place and that was from Abbott's spokesperson.

Tony doesnt want to talk about it.

Apparently he told Putin he KNEW Russia shot down the plane and then said he wanted an apology, IF THIS WERE TRUE!

What an embarrassment!We dont know if Abbott 'confronted' Putin.

All we have is a one sided version of what was said.

And it didnt sound like a confrontation to me.All we need now is evidence that this actually happened.Tell us how he was rejected at the ballot box twice.Get back to work and earn some tax!Except that RAAF aircraft mechanics are performing their job in a war zone, in anything but ideal conditions.

Not in a Qantas hangar where they can go home every night.

Yes, this 'pay- rise' offer, is in fact, a pay cut.Can resign at any time?

I dont think so.So ADF personnel can resign at any time?

I wish I knew that before I was sent to Vietnam.

I could have said, 'thanks, but I resign'

Give us a break!This is the first sensible comment she has made.

Liberal governments are very good and sending troops to war, paying them a pittance and forgetting about them when they return.

I remember getting paid an extra $24 a fortnight to fight in a war zone under a Liberal government.

They treat our serving and returned ADF personnel like crap.What rubbish!

If you are in the ADF, you do as you're told!

Do you think you can resign because you feel like it?It wasnt Rudd or Gillard, it was a Liberal government.

And the war zone was Vietnam.

It's a non issue?

Spoken like someone who has no idea of how ADF people think.

They have bills to pay the same as anyone else.Private individuals have donated more to fight Ebola than this government has.

Yes........ shame.Tell that to people being polled.Yes, it would appear Key can have a mature debate.

It's a pity our PM is unable to maturely debate anything.Much like the present polls, actually.
Only reversed.What sort of reaction did you expect from the crowd?
Rousing applause?

If Gillard was in Abbotts shoes, what sort of a reception do you think she would have received?

Spare us your confected outrage.......acquire power or just hold onto it and at any cost!'

And this coming from an Abbott supporter!

You have to laugh!....they are immediately accused of being polarising'.

Perhaps that's because they are.

Howard and now Abbott are two glaring examples.Yep. no argument here, Paul....low income earners receive all their money from the government anyway'

What rubbish!

So all low income earners are on welfare?

That would be the typical conservative enthusiasts view.

Time to open both eyes.You reckon Whitlam was divisive???

You obviously didnt take into account Howard and Abbott.

Howard was so despised he was voted out of his seat and Abbott the most unpopular PM in decades.

Being divisive doesn't pay off in the long run, it would seem.Opinion polls?

What opinion polls?

We dont want to talk about them!Just as a carbon tax was proposed by Abbott, you mean?

You're very welcome.Considered.

But didnt.
......the GST will be broadened or increased'

And how do you think that is going to happen?And now, fortunately the majority of the country realise that they were duped and intend to vote accordinglyI dont agree.

I'm sure Shorten looks at the polls.
The same as Abbott does.

So far, whatever Shorten is doing, seems to be working.

And people dont like what Abbott is doing.

They are the facts.'Time to give the name calling a rest'

Time to give the name calling a rest.If the great big new tax on petrol was supported by Labor, the former government would have proposed it. 

Lets wait and see if the legislation is passed, shall we.

By then, 'everyone' will be furious with the new tax and will want to see it gone.

To see their money repaid to oil companies, will only add fuel to the fire!!!The Alcopops tax was a bipartisan agreement.

If Tony didn't like it, he would revoke it.

Wouldn't he?It's all about broken promises,Richard.

It's not about how much it costs to fill up your tank.

Abbott promised us no new taxes.

Why should Labor or the Greens back a lie?

The other interesting thing is, if the legislation isnt passed in twelve months, they will have to pay the money back.

Cant wait for that one!Well it's a tax amount we weren't paying before.

Now we are.

Sounds like a new tax to me.Yes, if they have to pay the tax back to the oil companies, that will make angry voters even angrier.

Well done Tony!I dont think so.

Voters will already be angry about the tax.
Seeing it go back to oil companies will make them furious.

Labor will be in the good books for getting rid of it.

This is Abbotts tax.

He is responsible.In twelve months time fuel will have increased a couple of times at least, with this new tax.

People will want to see the end of it.

Howard recognised this fact, however Tony seems too obtuse to see it.

The only independent statistic telling us how the political parties are travelling, is the polls.

And Shorten and Labor seem to be doing pretty well in them.

Unfortunately, wishful thinking on your part, doesn't count.Yep.

Just watch prices of everything increase because of this new tax.

If Abbott thinks he wont receive a backlash from people as a result of paying more, he has rocks in his head.How is the fuel tax going to fix this so called, 'deep black financial hole'?Just a small point.

The carbon tax is no more, in case you haven't noticed.

What we have now is a new tax on petrol.

Should go down well!

Hardly worth moving in, for only a couple of years.As opposed to yourself, you mean?The major problem Tony Abbott has is his lack of credibility.
After years of Whyalla being wiped off the map,  lamb roasts costing $100 and electricity cost doubling, he now wants a mature debate on Tax!

And he is urging people to look at what is best for Australia, rather than what is good for them at the next election!

I dont know which one is funnier!As far as I know the boats are still coming, the ABC has had it's funding cut, pensions will be changed, we have new taxes, the government is secretive, we cant trust Tony and we are surprised on a daily basis.

Apart from that, everything is fine.Increasing the GST has nothing to do with winning an election.

All state have to agree, for a start.

We have the Liberal Premier in WA telling us he wont support a rise in the GST unless WA gets a bigger cut.

And we have a Labor State Government in SA, soon to be Victoria and perhaps QLD

The chances of the GST being raised is ZERO, in my opinion.I would urge Abbott to adopt option 2.

If his political coffin needs any more final nails, that would be it.So why can you normally get two quotes from tradies?

The cash quote being substantially lower than the 'normal' one.I agree burke.

These poor people have been getting it too good, for too long!

Money for fresh food and rent, that's all they need.I would suspect that most fair minded people (that excludes lawyers, of course) know what fairness is.

They dont need a a legal definition of what fairness is.

It comes naturally to the majority of people.

Not lawyers of course.Or wear clothes!Exactly!

The GST aint going up!

Get used to it.Sending Aid Workers to Africa to fight Ebola, is not a priority for this government.

There's no votes in it.'Are we doing anything yet?'

No.

There's not many votes in it.Yes, it's not as if these same sorts of things have been happening in Africa for years, is it?

What is it?

No votes in intervening in Africa?

Exactly!I dont remember Martin Bryant being an Islamic extremist.

Anyone can go crazy and kill people.

It's not exclusive to Muslims.Healthcare workers ARE needed.

However, there's no votes in the issue, so it has a very very low priority.'So you want the Australian public to fear Abbott?'

Going by the polls, I think they already do.Now I get it!

Abbott's fear campaign is all the ABC's fault.The gunman was also described as mentally disturbed and  'a nut case'.

This event happened on the other side of the world.

Are we to shake with fear every time shootings occur there?

How many Americans are shot and killed by supposedly normal people?The commentary should be low-key.

Because the threat is low-key.Anyway, he obviously did not have enough work to do....most of the things Gough did were already either in the pipeline already or been implemented!"

Well, you learn something new every day, as they say.

Whitlam achieved more for this country in three years, than the conservatives did in the previous two decades.

Exactly, bkeniry.

The fear factor would have well and truly worn off by the time the election rolls around.

There will be no votes in it any more.

Tony will have moved on to another vote catching exercise by thenWho says so?Yes, if that's what we demanded at the last election, our demands have certainly been met.
No, Abbott is leading in the popularity stakes with Shorten because people swallowed his fear campaign rubbish.

Last time I looked at the polls, he was still one of the most unpopular PM's in memory.

If Labor is a leaderless rabble, why are they doing so well in the polls?

I'm afraid the spotlight will fall on Abbott's broken promises and lies, prior to the election.

He wont be able to campaign on 'trust' or 'open transparent government' or Shorten's broken promises.

He is looking down the barrel, in my opinion.'I'm going to shirt-front Mr Putin....you bet I am' 

I rather like the actual words Abbott spoke when making his ridiculous threat.

He said, 'I'm going to shirt-front Mr Putin', then blurted out, 
'I bet you are', before correcting himself!

I think his first statement is closer to the truth.Why are people so concerned about what other people wear?
It's none of their business.Burqa's have been around for a long time.
No serious crimes as far as I know.

Unsubstantiated, alarmist comments, dont mean it will happen.Why is seeing the face so important?

I saw a youth on a skateboard wearing a horror mask at our local shopping centre.  

Should I have been concerned for my safety?I dont claim to be the suppository of all wisdom, so I cant answer your question.

Sorry.Just how many people have you engaged with who were wearing a Burqa?

None?What about someone wearing an overcoat?

Knowing whether the wearer of a Burqa is male of female is irrelevant.

Time to give the alarmist talk a rest and take a reality check, I think.All people are thoroughly scanned before they enter parliament.

Wearing a Burqa is not a security threat.

Your prejudices are clouding your thinking.I think you'll find it's spelled, 'Burqa'Yes and if a group of men with big bushy beards entered a shop, you would serve them, no problems.

What's the difference?Yes, those faces can be very dangerous.

Best we see all of them.

We'll all feel so much more secure.Why are people so concerned about what other people wear?

More to do with prejudices, than anything, in my opinion.Yes, men with big bushy beards also exclude themselves from society.

But then again, it could be none of my business, what they do.Spot on Rhonda.

I think it was a pathetic attempt to get away from the usual robotic, repetitive scripts, we hear from Senator Cormann.

Someone has obviously thought it would be a great thing for him to say, so he did.

I'm sure he didnt think of it himself.Tom.

The polls tell us that GBE is talking through his hat.'Doing very well indeed!'

Funny.

The majority of voters dont seem to agree with you.

And that is a FACT!Yes and lets hope Julie Bishop doesn't call the new Indonesian Foreign Minister, a liar.Yep, how many best friends can a country have?Yep, thank God I'm an atheist.It was a ridiculous thing to say.

Something we have come accustomed to, with this foot in mouth Prime Minister.As an LNP enthusiast, I would not be criticising anyone from Labor over pledges, if I were you.

You're leaving yourself open to a huge shirtfront!Yes, perhaps we should send some aid workers to the area?'The whole nature of conservatism is that it is the home of those who really care about their fellow humans'

You forgot to add, 'unless they are the poor or under privileged, then conservatism couldnt care less'Speaking of offensive  T shirts.

I once saw an attractive girl who was wearing a T shirt that said....'Hating me wont make you look pretty'

I was particularly offended!Yes Alpo.

My wife's first Australian descendant also arrived on the First Fleet, as a fourteen year old, although he travelled below deck!

Two of his descendants were Rats of Tobruk.

I'm sure they would not be happy with the way this country is heading, if they were alive today.

It seems the bigoted, greedy, selfish and money obsessed are taking overVery true, Al.Because redneck bogans love that sort of thing and Woolies could see a buck in it.Yes a minority.

If the majority of voters thought it was such a problem, the LNP would not be where it is in the polls.Who would wear that T shirt?

A knuckle headed bogan, that's who.Does anyone take any notice of the comments of Miranda Devine and Andrew Bolt?

Seriously!Very true.

We only have to look at the US to see the frightening, racist, patriotic AND religious nut cases that roam the county there.

Is this where Australia is headed?Apparently, that doesnt tell us much at all.Yes Gary, the same thought crossed my mind.

I bet Abbott had not even heard of the term, 'shirtfront', a week ago.

Someone has told him it would be a good thing to say, so he did.

What an embarrassment!So, you have proof that Russia shot down the civilian aircraft?

Perhaps you could send your findings to the Dutch, they seem to be still investigating.Obviously the Dutch investigators think there is more to it than that.

If only the armchair experts here were in charge of the investigation, it would have been solved five minutes after the aircraft hit the ground.I bet the whole G20 are laughing up their sleeves at Abbott and his ridiculous, embarrassing remark.

Doesn't he realise we have to live here?Now you've done it!

We can now look forward to Tone leading the push down the Queen St Mall, shirtfronting anyone who gets in his way!

What have you done!Yes Kevin, no doubt we will only get the Abbott version of how he shirtfronted Putin.

My bet is he will be very meek and mild, behind closed doors.

What exactly is he going to shirtfront Putin about?

The Dutch investigation is ongoing, so trying the tough guy approach will only make him a bigger fool than he already is.Yes, I agree.

That will be the extent of Abbott's shirtfront on Putin.

But what will the spin be?

That is the question.What the findings confirm, is that the budget is blatantly unfair, and targets the disadvantaged over the wealthy and big business.

A fact that everyone other than greedy, selfish people, already acknowledged.

The budget is a reflection of where the LNP is in the polls. 

...asks everyone to contribute'

Some more than others, it would seem.Yes, PAYE taxpayers have been paying the tax of big business and businessmen for decades.

It's a disgrace.Going by what this government is doing, obviously not.Yeah, dont you just hate poll results that dont fit with your own views.

This of course proves that they are biased, not representative, etc.

If they were not, they would agree with my particular thinking.

Simple.
When I was boy, you could buy a Vanilla Slice for four pence!

Ahh yes, those were the days.When you say conservative presenters, you mean someone who does not ask difficult questions or push for answers when it comes to this government.

The problem for born to rule enthusiasts is, that your party is now in government and will be put under scrutiny.

Something you are not used to, I'm sure.

The ABC does an excellent job of holding politicians of both sides to account.

These bias accusations are all a figment of conservative's fertile imagination.



Abbott has adopted Labor's, 'no refugee will be settled in Australia,' policy, which was working very well, prior to the election.

What is it you dont understand about that?Anyone can write an article for publication on the Drum.

Perhaps there is not a lot of positives LNP cheerleaders can write about?

Just because you say the ABC is committed to open borders, doesnt make it so.

Perhaps people dont share your obsession with asylum seekers.Ahhh, so it's all about money!

Now the truth comes out!The Bolt report and Sky news!!!!!

Well, there's some balance for you. LOL

The problem you and other LNP supporters have is that just because you say it, it doesn't make it so.

I'm sure the ABC will continue to ask difficult questions of both sides of politics.

Open the other eye, you may see things differently.Yes and they cant even bring themselves to acknowledge the fact that the Murdoch press is biased.

The News Corp, that's how they want the ABC to be like.

Completely unbiased.Objection, your honour!

'The honourable gentleman is quibbling again'

'Objection sustained!'Wining Pom, you wont get any examples because there aren't any.

Conservatives are very sensitive when it comes to criticising their government.

They seem to thing the dream run they experienced from the media, including the ABC, before the election, should continue.

They seem to think their government should be able to say and do what it likes, without being held to account.

I just hope the ABC continues as it is and doesn't buckle under pressure.

Perhaps you could send in a list of the shows you dont like.

I'm sure the ABC would deal with it appropriately.Hang on!

No cuts to the ABC.

Wasn't that the promise?

Abbott didnt lie to us did he?Are you sure you're not watching Sky News?There have been several independent reviews of the perceived bias in the ABC and yes, they determined that there was bias, slightly to the right.

What doesnt count is the biased views of conservative enthusiasts.

So there.If the ABC folded where would rabid, right wing cheerleaders vent their spleen?

Ohh of course, there's always Ruperts fact free, opinion sites.



Nice try John, but no cigar, I'm afraid.

Despite the expected spike in the polls for Tony 'Mr Tough Guy' Abbott, Labor is still in a winning position in the 2pp stakes.

Abbott's personal disapproval rating is down from 60%, but despite the heroics, more voters still disapprove than approve of him.

Why dont we wait until the fear campaign wears off and the spotlight comes back to shine on domestic issues. 

Labor/Greens 45, LNP 41.'How many of the part pensioners are likely to vote Liberal again?'

As no one likes being lied to, I would suggest very few.Yes, Algernon, all Labor have to do is remind the population of the lies, broken promises and deceit dished out by Abbott.

They will never trust him again.Shorten has Labor ahead federally and in almost every state and Territory.

The longer time goes on and the more people see of Abbott and his inept crew, the better it will be for Labor.

Abbott can string out his fear campaign and tough guy approach for only so long.

People will see through it.The budget is seen as blatantly unfair by everyone other than conservative die-hards.

Until they can grasp this fact, they will always be in denial.

I'm afraid your comments don't stack up when compared to the polls.

You see, wishful thinking doesn't count....actually doing a good job'

What's his latest disapproval rating?

Is it down from 60% yet?Shorten has Labor ahead in almost every poll in Australia.

What do you bloody well want?We havent seen Labors policies yet Ted.

Give them time.

All will be revealed before the election, I'm sure.And he still has his party ahead in the polls!

How bad must your Liberal party be?And why doesn't he appear on the 7.30 Report.

Because he usually makes a fool of himself when asked difficult questions or pushed to give answers?I think you will find Julia Gillard is much more likeable than Tony Abbott was, of ever will be.I cant remember Gillards disapproval rating being as high as 60%, can you?'he didnt even know they were there'!

Give us a break!If women want to have this particular operation, let them.

It's no skin off my nose.Barry Humphrey may be a conservative, however I'm sure Sir Les Patterson is a Labor man.

Wasn't he The Minister For Inland Drainage and Rodent Control, in a Labor government?Tony Burke has been proven to be correct, a thousand times over.Ahh, so voters like Labor more than the LNP, the polls tell us.

But they will still vote to give this shambles of a government another go!

In your dreams!Getting rid of Abbott will make the majority of voters feel better, if nothing else.'The current lot do not even come close to the didaster that was Rudd and Gillard'

Really?

Have you seen the polls?'Polls, schmolls'

Spoken by someone whose party is languishing in them.

The FACTS are that Labor is in a winning position, or is this another case of the facts being biased?Dont worry Hugh, when the time is right, I'm sure you will hear about Labor's policies.

It's too early yet to show your hand.'Another new tax'

Yes, just when Whyalla has been re-built too!No, this budget still hangs around the neck of this inept government, like a stinking corpse.

Hence, the diversionary, humanitarian bombing of the 'death cult', in Iraq, tactic.

Anything to take the spotlight off the budget disaster.What was the interest rate under that brilliant treasurer, John Howard?All true, but only in the minds of deluded conservative enthusiasts, I'm afraid.

The only indicator we have of how a political party is travelling, is the polls.

And they dont make for pleasant reading, if you are a desperate LNP cheerleader.I thought consumer confidence was declining.

Still, dont let a few facts get in the way of LNP propaganda.Yes, if only we could pick and choose where our taxes go.

Liberal governments wouldn't get any of mine.Answer: Let anyone else but News Corp carry out the survey.

I'm sure you would get a more realistic result.'truly unelectable'

I'm sure Tone would rather be in Shortens shoes at the moment.

Who wants to be an unpopular leader leading an unpopular government?If Rupert didnt think his news media didnt influence voters, why would he bother with his maniacal championing of Tony Abbott?

Conservatives cant even bring themselves to admit that the Murdoch press is blatantly biased against Labor.Absolutely spot on, M.Fonti.

You have to wonder how long Abbott and Co will continue to blame Labor for their own ineptitude.

As time goes by, people will see this ploy as the charade that it is.Yes, this indicator will lag all the way to the election, IMO.Well said, Jerry.Yank, just imagine a parliament full of independents.

Think about it.

It's not going to happen.Good point, Bill.

Good luck with the re-building!My thoughts exactly David.

I had no idea there were so many ignorant, gullible people in Australia.

It seems many of us are running around looking for something to be scared about.

And Abbott has tapped in to this potential vote winner.

However, in two years time, when the novelty has worn off and we are still fighting an un-winnable war, with troops on the ground and no end in sight. it could all come back to bite him.

The IS should be opposed, but not by a small country on the other side or the world.

And certainly not so an unpopular PM can achieve a lift in the polls via a scare campaign.

The latter, in my opinion, is what this is all about....the suspicions remain'

Only in the minds of right wing zealots.

As the polls suggest most clear thinking Australians dont see Muslims as any kind of threat....or she'd have copped their criticism for her immodest behaviour'!!!!!

What absolute drivel.

A typical ignorant view of Muslims in this country.

I would love to know how many Muslims these ill-informed, right wing zealots have met or spoken to.

None, would be my guess.They could not have polles too many people in 'moderate' Malaysia then.

Malaysians do not believe in any of your list items.

I suggest they are a figment of some ones imagination.

As far as importing far right attitudes into Australia, I thought you would be all for them.We are talking about Muslims who live in Australia.

Waffling on about what happens in extremist Muslim countries is irrelevant.And there was me thinking Australia was a free, tolerant country, where you could basically wear what you liked.

And if anyone wanted to dress differently to us, good luck to them.

Thankfully the poll tells us there are more far more fair minded people in Australia than bigots and right wing zealots.Yes Monty.

It amazes me that Liberal enthusiasts waffle on about how Labor is 'finished', when their own party is in a losing position in the polls!

Perhaps this is one of the many facts which are biased against them.So if things are so dire for Labor, how the hell are they in a winning position in the polls.

I know LNP supporters dont like to hear or read it, but Labor is not only ahead in the polls federally, but almost every state and territory as well.

Whose shoes would you rather be in?Yes.

The fact that Labor Party members have any say at all, in who they want as leader is a step in the right direction.

But as Barrie says, now is the time to get their house in order before Abbott's RC reaches its conclusion.

If Faulkener's ideas were put in place by then, it would mean that Abbott's expected political point scoring opportunity, would be dead in the water.

But of course this is all very easier said than done.Yes.

Perhaps Barrie could write an article on fixing the LNP, as it heads towards defeat at the election.

I'm sure he would get lots of advice.

So these property developers gave illegal donations to the the sitting LNP government and expected nothing in return!

Give us a break!So all these LNP politicians are standing aside or resigning for the fun of it?

Give us another break!...most of us on the right is to make politics boring again'

Obviously Tony and Joe dont agree with you.

The disastrous Budget From Hell and it's fallout being, a classic example.Stop whinging.Will you two stop whinging for God's sake?

Everyone has their comments 'moderated'.

Stop carrying on like spoilt children.Completely agree.

If the media did not report these horrifying events, these murderers would soon lose interest.

Media around the world is giving the IS exactly what it wants.

And that is, publicity.
Keep the reform argument going, John.

What you say is absolutely true, in my opinion.

It is the perception that unions have too much say in the running of the Labor Party, which is the big turn-off for potential supporters.

The Senate re run election in WA being an excellent example.
The way that was handled by Labor and the Union influence exhibited, has set the party back ten years, in the state, in my opinion.

It was an embarrassing disgrace.

Labor should be 10% further ahead in the polls than it is.
It is up against an unpopular leader, leading an unpopular, incompetent, government.

With the reforms you suggest, Labor would sweep to power and would be very difficult to dislodge.
No, that's what Abbott did.It is far too early in the game for Labor to begin announcing it's policies.

I'm sure we will hear what they have to say closer to the election.

Watch for them to come storming home in the last quarter!Why would Shorten want a 'turn back the boats' policy when it clearly hasnt worked?

They are still coming.

No, he will stick to the 'no refugee will settle in Australia' policy, the one Abbott gleefully embraced before the election.

There has been no mention of bringing in a carbon tax.
That, is just a figment of conservative enthusiasts imagination.

Bill has Labor ahead in the polls federally and almost every state and territory.

That's what he's made of.

What more do you want?This joke of a political party is in a winning position in the polls!

How bad must your LNP be???Ex Senators can.A super profits tax on big miners!

What a good idea.

Why hasn't someone thought of this before?This government and it's supporters like to attack the easy targets.

Pensioners, veterans, people with disabilities and dole recipients.

The fact that pensioners may have paid tax all their working lives to actually pay for their pension, doesn't seem to register.

And those other leaners, veterans who fought for their country, people who cant work because of disabilities and people who cant find a job, they are all bludgers, it would seem.

....those on top of the pyramid of power can urinate on those who've built the pyramid for them'

Yes, this is what conservatives mean, when they talk about 'trickle down' economic policies.Very true, Harvey.

Apparently, we dont need to increase taxes to pay for Abbott's war on the death cult.

There's money available!

We've been conned once again, it would seem.'ISIL is not a death cult'

Maybe, Alpo.

But 'death cult' sounds a lot scarier than ISIS.

Think about it.

Which is scarier: ISIS is coming to getcha
or, a death cult is coming to getcha?

If you were a PM languishing in the polls, you would go for 'death cult' every time.Perhaps in two years time with the election looming, no terrorist threat at home and Abbott's war dragging on with no end in sight, they might realise what they have supported, yank.

When the novelty wears off and the focus returns to mundane domestic issues like budgets, trust and deceit, they might realise they have been conned.If they are Australian citizens, I didnt think you COULD cancel their passports.

Australian citizens have a right to enter the country, surely?And that was after the threat level was raised.

Why would the outgoing head spy, up the level, just as he left the job?

All a bit fishy to me.Well, we dont know if we are going to be taxed to pay for Abbott's fear campaign, do we?

He is saying one thing and Cormann another.

Clearly, this government is in disarray.

Abbott says success will be measured when the IS is 'in retreat, not in advance', believe it or not!

God help us all!...$500m a year bombing their country'

Yes, but on a purely humanitarian basis, Tony tells us.Exactly Kevin.

The conservative fear campaigns used to be, 'reds under the bed'.

Now it would seem ISIL have taken their place.

Abbott could not care less how long this war takes, or whether it is successful or not

As long as he is getting a boost in the polls.

That's all that matters.Gosh Realist, there has been a change of government!

Your leader is the one coming up with thought bubbles now.

Think PPL scheme, for a start.

I wonder when that one will be quietly shelved?I'm sure you will hear all about Labor's plans to fix the mess the LNP have gotten us into before the election.

Do not fret.

The polls are the only independent indication we have of how a political party is travelling.
And all indications are that Labor is heading for victory, despite Abbott's fear campaign.

I dont think the rants of delusional LNP cheerleaders matter much at all.$670,000??

In Vietnam we were paid an extra $24 a fortnight for working six days a week for twelve months and no such thing as public holidays.

Talk about cheap!Exactly Lilly.

Abbott could not care less if IS are beaten back or not.

The main aim of this little diversion is for him to create fear in the community and get a boost in the polls.

The old Herman Goering approach.
Keep 'em fearful and they will follow you anywhere.So you will of course be waiting for Abbott to declare war on the despot leaders in Africa, who are also killing thousands.

Or could it be that wont happen, because there's no votes in it.You hit the nail on the head, Trevor.

Abbott wants the fear in the community to keep bubbling along under the surface.

Why else would he say he wished Burqas weren't worn?

The man is the worst type of hypocrite.I think the polls answer your question.Yes Mungo.

The Burqa debate has certainly brought out the bigot element.

Some of the ignorant comments being made make me embarrassed to call myself an Australian.

The hysteria and ill-informed statements have been mind boggling.

All fanned along by our illustrious leader of course.

The whole thing is a bloody disgrace.If it's not such a problem, why did Abbott fan the fire with his, 'I wish they weren't worn' comment?Bishop was Shadow Treasurer.

She performed so appallingly that her colleagues banded together to have her kicked out of the job.

Not a great endorsement, I would think.Hit the nail on the head there, whtf.

I cant believe any LNP enthusiast would have the gall to complain about attacks by the media, on Julie Bishop.

What short memories they have.I think Labor would be rubbing there hands together at your suggestion, if her performance as Shadow Treasurer is any indication of her competence and ability.

There is more to being PM than having a death stare and being able to read prepared speeches.I think you would be very surprised just how many people love their ABC.

Because a few bleating LNP apologists comment here, doesn't mean that the ABC does not overwhelming support.

It would be political suicide for any government to try and privatise the ABC.

Perhaps Tony should do it!

Yes.

What we dont want is a news service which highlights the shortcomings of a conservative government.

We dont want them being held to account, we want them to able to say and do what they like with no scrutiny whatsoever.

People dont seem to realise that we are born to rule.I dont know where you were when Gillard was in power.

She and her government were regularly criticised by the ABC.

Her government was held to account as it should have been, but now the boot is on the other foot, LNP supporters dont like it.

They cant seem to grasp the fact that their party is supposed to be running the country and will come under close scrutiny.

Labor is not in power, they are not breaking promises, bringing down unfair budgets, or deceiving the people.

It seems to me that it is only conservative enthusiasts who criticise the ABC, because they cant handle the truth.Me too, Monty.

If you want accurate, factual reporting without bias, Jones, Bolt and the Murdoch Press is the way to go.

No prejudice there, just telling it as it is.









Has it ever occurred to conservative worshippers that the ABC is reporting the facts as they are and it is the fault of their party and it's leader, that the news isnt all that good?

Could it be, if they did something positive, the ABC would report it?


When you say hostile treatment, do you mean being made to answer the questions being asked without waffling on?

Or asked questions you may not like?

Tony Abbott has an open invitation to appear on the 7.30 Report.

Could it be that he usually makes a fool of himself when asked difficult questions, have anything to do with the fact that he is rarely allowed by his minders, to appear?

Opposition politicians get asked the same difficult questions with the same 'hostility'.

Time to take off the blinkers.'No cuts to the ABC'

That's what we were promised.

Remember?'telling the truth is exactly what the Australian deserve dont they?'

Yes they do and that's what they get with the ABC.

What they dont get with the ABC, is blatantly biased made up stories, news articles and outrageous headlines.

Just read your Sunday Times or watch Sky News, if you want examples.It's called scrutiny.

Something LNP supporters are not used to.

They want to go back to the pre election days when the spotlight was on Labor and Abbott could wander the country with an adoring press hanging off his every slogan.

Those days are over.




Perhaps, 'stopping the boat' is only newsworthy in the minds of desperate Liberal enthusiasts looking for a winner.

Perhaps people are well and truly over, 'stopping the boats'.

Perhaps they are more interested in how the budget is going to effect them.The ABC has had independent inquiries into its alleged bias.

What were the outcomes?Oh yes!

If you want unbiased news, go to News Ltd!

I often wonder why ABC haters spend so much time on this ABC site.If refusing to take any notice of News Ltd reporting, is an example of my closed mind, I proudly plead guilty.
'It is the only online news service that is for free'

No, you're wrong.

If I could point you in the direction of Rupert's LNP love-in news sites, which are free, I'm sure you will find what you are looking for.

There, you will find fact free news articles and mind boggling opinions from like minded people.

Any pro LNP, anti Labor comments get printed.
They dont have to be factual in any way, make any sense whatsoever, or even coherent.

Give them a try.....just how well the government is performing'

The only indicator we have of how this government is performing, is the polls.

And the polls would suggest that your government is is not performing very well at all.

Because deluded conservative enthusiasts keep telling us how well their government is going, doesnt make it so.

Unfortunately.Based on what?The vast majority of voters seem to think Shorten is electable.

Very electable, in fact!Yes, the vast majority.

54.5% of voters seem to think they will vote Labor.

That to me is a vast majority.

If you have any evidence that it's not, please let us know.The answer IS obvious.

Have a look at the polls.So why is Abbott and his government so unpopular?Abbott had no choice.

He did not control the Senate.

How much of the governments legislation would have passed if he did, do you think?

Have a wild guess.As opposed to your own views, you mean?Time to realise that Rudd and Gillard are no longer in politics.

Ranting about them now, is completely irrelevant.

It must be difficult to find something positive to say about Abbott and his crew, I know, but hang in there, there's bound to be something eventually.Yes, all that terrorism and social disaster.

What is Australia coming to?

Sounds like you are playing right into Abbotts handsWhat people want to wear is no ones business but the wearers.

Abbott was just trying to add to his blatantly obvious fear campaign strategy.

Divide and conquer, that's the plan....home grown terrorism..

One incident where a 17 year old disturbed boy was involved.

Give us a break!Exactly John C.

Abbotts recent comments on the wearing of the burqa are designed to cause division in the country.

It's us against them and only I can save you.

So vote for me.

That's the plan....to try and trip the government up in the Senate...

I think it's called 'keeping them to account'

You know, like keeping the promises they made before the election.

Probably not a high priority for the LNP and its enthusiasts, but it would seem the voters expect them to be honoured.

Funnily enough.

My thoughts exactly, MIK.

Quite a clever move by Shorten, actually.

In my opinion.
And you expect people to believe that Abbott wouldnt have been just as much an obstructionist in the Senate, if he he controlled the balance of power there?Why would they dump Shorten?

Is Labor doing badly in the polls?  No

Is the LNP doing badly in the polls?  Yes

Is Tony Abbott unpopular with voters?  Yes

Those facts imply that Shorten is doing a great job.And Abbott dearly wants this issue to hang around right up until the election so the focus does not come back on to his disastrous, unfair budget.

My bet is, it will run out of steam in six months time and peoples attention will be back on domestic issues.

The last thing Tony Abbott wants.It is working.

Have a look at the polls.Very true, Cobber.And popularity.Exactly Anubis.

Abbott must be extremely disappointed that Shorten didnt take the bait on this one.

A clever political move by Shorten, I would think.What exactly is surprising about the Opposition backing the Government on national security?

National security is a completely different kettle of fish to normal domestic politics.

Obviously, unlike the LNP, Labor does not oppose everything proposed out of blind hatred for the opposite party.

Bill Shorten has Labor in a very healthy position in the polls.
He should be very relaxed and comfortable.Nice try, Malcom.

Not a word about the 'no cuts to the ABC' promise, I notice.

I cant believe you have the hide to break that promise, then try and blame the ABC for cutting programs!

To try and convince us that any cuts to programming will be the ABC's fault and not forced upon them by your government, is laughable.

How silly do you think people are?Easy!

The fear campaign is a vote winner.

The budget is a vote loser.Agree completely, Laurence.

This whole fear campaign has an odour about it.

Why wouldn't the retiring spook leave it to his replacement to decide if the security level should be raised?

Why would the police need 800 personnel and their media team to detain then release 15 people?

Peta Credlin is desperate not to be seen as pulling the Abbott strings, scurrying out of shot when Abbott speaks to the media on TV.The IPA rubbishing and kicking a conservative government!

What is the world coming to?

I'm amazed that so many gullible people have been duped into believing that this Fear Campaign by Abbott is anything else than a desperate ploy to gain favour in the community and a boost in the polls.

Tony Abbott, our saviour.


