Yes it was Peter, although they topped out at around 18%.

HOWEVER, during this period of "ultra high interest rates", the one figure that really mattered is still glossed over by the LNP supporters.

The average household debt to income ratio never got over 30% under Hawke / Keating. It topped out at nearly 36% under J Ho and Costello after they cost shifted everything they could and drove house prices through the roof.

Read the section in Costellos book on how they won over the "battler" vote by convincing the housing estate muppets that a $300,000 debt meant you were wealthy.Look it up. I was paying off my first home at the time......

The income to debt ratio tells the WHOLE story the headline interest rate doesn'tHoward/Costello left Swan a level of over 140% household debt to disposable income ratio, after inheriting 40% from Keating.


So where and when was the REAL damage to the Australian economy done and who decided to do it?

SOURCE - ABS and RBA figures reprinted HERE
http://www.whocrashedtheeconomy.com.au/blog/household-debt/The interest charged on a business loan is strictly a matter between the borrower and the lender, and the rate of interest will increase proportionate to the perceived risk

Huh????

Most business loans are done very prudently and banks generally WON'T lend money for hair brained schemes. They generally start around 1-2% over the current variable home loan rate.

Through loan brokers you can generally negotiate a slightly better rate if you shop around. I've been involved in borrowing money numerous times for capital equipment from Japan and Italy in particular, and I can tell you from hard earned experience you don't fully represent the reality.

If the banks smell ANY risk you don't get a cent."You obviously weren't subject to them were you. They nearly took us out and many friends and acquaintances as well. In contrast, the Howard years were the most financially rewarding of our lives to date."


Unfortunately this type of revisionist history will most likely win the day, despite it being TOTAL CRAP

Do some very simple and basic research on the levels of household debt. You won't have to dig too far or too long.

Just one question for you. Who saw household debt to income ratio almost QUADRUPAL during their time in office?

Hint - they held office from 1996 to 2009.

Go on Realist - take a stab at the answer!!!

Sold our military did he?

So who entered the first joint fighter scheme in the 60's with the F111, or the more recent one?

Or who brought 30 year old air frames for attack helicoptors that never flew?

Your mates in the LNP is who.

We knowingly footed the bill for much of the development on projects that run way over budget and time, ending up with aircraft with a fraction of the capability our "partners" did through the limited technology our "partners" would allow us to access."Well, seeing that a veil of secrecy is drawn over the asylum seekers, we don't know how many have died at sea since the mad Abbott took over. "

Bingo. ANY discussion on the actual facts of the situation is hollow bell-ringing. Neither I, you or gbe know the truth. Now Murdoch refuses to print a negative article about the government on the issue after daily diatribes against the previous government on the subject we will NEVER know.

So gbe "likes" Abbotts approach better? Looks like someone is easily pleased if something you know ABSOLUTE NOTHING about is preferrable to anything at all.

Ignorance is bliss I suppose. Happy are you gbe?Really WS?

He was one of the first to openly point the finger of blame at Russia, remembering at that stage there was very little evidence either way about which side of the conflict had made the mistake. He did it so quickly most of the bodies would have still been warm.

Although Abbott wasn't alone for too long, his wont to use coffins as soapboxes has been a trait of his entire political career (Bernie Banton anyone?), something I would definitely describe as anything else other than "statesmanlike".

Bishop on the other hand deserves kudos. She has played out our role on the security council flawlessly, and unlike her dear leader, has made sure her mouth hasn't run ahead of her brain.

Abbott is so stuck on the conservative playbook he just knows no other way. They need the weapons of mass distraction having an "enemy" provides. It takes pesky things like bad budgets and poll numbers off the front pages.The whole Security Council is nothing more than politics on a grander scale.

Open warfare is never a good look between the permanent members, and it is often the part-timers jobs to draft these resolutions, which like all other resolutions the UN draft will be swiftly ignored.

To that point Bishop has done ok. She knows full well bluster and postulatuing won't help. Even I can say she has done a good job in difficult circumstances over the last few days.

Abbot on the otherhand is still Abbott. Foot prints all over the coffins as he uses them for soap boxes yet again.....Dapsta

One idiot you say.

So the price we all pay for that is the VERY things that makes us different from that "one idiot" - our freedoms, our basic human rights, and our long established legal principles that STILL today make western society what it is.

Bathwater and babies come to mind....
Realist
"Maybe because Liberal governments learn from experience and have an interest in protecting the population?"

Or maybe it is singing from the conservative song sheet about making sure you have an "enemy" so you can can win votes by protecting people from them.Indeed Baz, why do we need these laws?

Because it ramps up our fear and the government can make us fell all warm and cozy under their constant protection. Conservative Con Politics 101.

The real problem with these laws is the overturning of 100's of years of basic law principles. Our legal system, as are all the major western nations, are based on some very simple and very explicit tenants. Chief among these is the onus of proof for any allegation of wrong doing MUST be on the accuser. These new laws push us ever closer to the day when "certain" types of people are just guilty anyway (read Muslims, "illegals", young men of middle eastern appearance, or any group the current crop of shock jocks running the LNP agenda deem worthy of our fear).

This will be a massive expense and see the work load quadruple for people that are doing the real work in keeping an eye on these issues. I'm in no doubt many posters on this site would already have an ASIO file with copies of certain posts kept just in case."In the mind of some, the law passes and the next day they locked up in a government sweatshop under parliament house."

gotta love the conservative cheer squad. Ramp the fear up of a perceived enemy, while the enemy within gets talked down like this.

It won't happen overnight, but it will happen.

The laws will extend to "criminal groups". Then they will extend to people with previous convictions, then they will extend to people with too many parking fines, then they'll be going through your tax returns. History has proven one thing - particularly when conservative governments are in charge - these sort of powers are only ever increased and NEVER recinded.

If ever there was a case to prove the abuse these laws will suffer one only has to think back to the last LNP government. The then Minister Kevin Andrews deported a hardworking and much needed doctor for no better reason than a idiot cousin once used their mobile phone. Earnt them a few more redneck racist votes but scared the heck out of anyone that actually cares about the society we want to live in.Yes indeed JH

When did doing good become something to fear?Indeed at this point in history they are minor. Not all that long ago it wasn't the case as India went through her independence struggles for example.

In recent days we have seen the real cause so many of the Islamic faith are swayed to the dark side. For every death in Gaza there are hundreds of new potential martyrs being made. While the US fund a military that willfully knocks out UN schools safe in the knowledge the western world will sit back and suck it up, the Islamic world watch on in horror at the genicide and prime time massacres we have been witnessing the last few weeks.

Until this state sponsored murder is stopped the production line of terrorists will continue to churn out damaged young folk willing to strap on a bomb and walk into a public building.@ Tory Boy
"If ASIO want to browse my emails to family and friends, its their time that will be wasted not mine."

No, Tory Boy, it isn't "their" time they are wasting. It's OUR bloody time!

We pay these guys to do a job, ie finding out as best they can if some flog is planning something. Instead we get conservative governments world wide that want these types of departments to do political spying on their own people.

The best spooks on the planet didn't click onto 9/11, despite the perps doing everything they could short of buying billboard space to drop hints at what they were planning. These same spooks told us all about the imaginary WMDs that resulted in a long drawn out and expensive war. In these cases the existing laws of the land could have stopped it, IF they knew the real facts. REAL facts take time to confirm in the world of 007, time they are being asked now to waste on fishing exercises.

They have a bloody hard job, but a bloody important one. Why they have to be kicked around like a political football every time a conservative government gets into power is something every one should be concerned about.Twiggy has form. His latest ideas may in fact bring a great deal of benefit, but he has shown in the past that he isn't above buttering up the indiginous community if it helps his mining business.

Twiggy is a bit of an enigma. His heart may well be in the right place, you would hope it is, but so far nearly all his schemes to help the native population seem to help his mining interests as well.As I said John, Twiggy is an enigma.

Before you jump in at the deep and and read into my post what wasn't there you have to face facts. He has no doubt helped the remote communities, for that he deserves praise. Equally he has had access to cheaper labour and compliant land councils when negotiations are needed.

It's very easy to be philantrophic if you're getting a benefit from it as well. Regardless of his motives he has done a lot of good for remote communities. If some good comes out of it either way I'm ok with it.

On that score Twiggy deserves much credit. At least he treats the aboriginals with respect, unlike many of his fellow travellers.

I do take issue with your last sentence. It would be hard to believe anyone in his position would put aboriginal issues ahead of his companies. Anyone who was around when Twiggy first started up would know the saga he went through with the huge sums of money he convinced banks to stump up, and the controversies surrounding the massive land tussels between him and other major miners at the time. He may have been "honest" when you knew him, but he is also a necessarily ruthless business man who has made millions digging up stuff on the land of those aboriginals.

Good point APOW, there will be a massive boost in employment as every small business in Australia will have to hire a new mail clerk to scan the thousands of job applications they'll soon be inundated with.

Of course before that they'll have to hire another mail clerk to scan the applications for the new mail clerk they'll need.

More bang for your buck, my friend. For each new employee every small business will have to hire an additional TWO mail clerks minimum just to read applications!!!

This is a genuine Noble Prize winning bit of policy. A mail clerk led recovery! Why didn't the bloody Labor Party come up with this idea????Edward
It's the policy that just keeps on giving. The Telstra sale all over again!

They will do a public float of Australia Post at say $8.50 a share. Watch it sell like hot cakes for a day or so before the real market forces take hold and drop it down to it's real value of $2.00 a share. Meanwhile the new board, possibly led by the Great Zwiggy again, will have to shed labour as quick as they can, which will mean more job seekers sending in more applications further boosting Australia Posts profits, now with a much smaller wage bill. The new hand picked LNP mates on the board will get their multi-million dollar bonus and leave after six months for another government appointed position.

The work-for-dole guys will be conscripted in their thousands to sort the mail backlog out, many of which will be their own job applications. No one will be able to afford computers or internet services by then, so it really will be a case of not only user-pays but also user-does-the-bloody-work-as-well.

Abetz is no genius. The man is a GOD. How long before the US Republicans head hunt this guy as a policy advisor?Conservatives will get their payback in the afterlife. When they die they all come back as footballs so everyone else can kick them around a bit.The last time work for the dole was rolled out under Howard we saw swarms of young kids planting trees on expressways. 

Trees that grow up to become killers when a car is run off the road at high speed.

That issue beside, the real thing that got up a lot of people noses was how the scheme was administered. It wasn't only local councils and other government bodies getting free labour. Any business could apply for a crew of no cost (to them) labour.

If ever there was a system open to rorting this was it. There was issues out here of one plant nursery/landscape business tendering and winning government tree planting contracts that was using almost 100% w-f-t-dole crews. The owners happened to also be LNP members I seem to recall and, close friends of the then federal member."As someone who has had to wade through tons of inappropriate applications, I pity the people who will be drowning under the weight of applications that people KNOW will not result in a job, but where they must meet a quota of applications."

I too have had the same issue. Advertising for experienced tradespeople and getting teenage kids or single mums with young kids applying just so they can get another name for their lists in the hope they don't lose some of the pitance they get to help them back into work.I'd be happy for a PPL scheme to be administered in a similar way to the current annual leave. Let it accrue weekly or monthly. They could cap it at certain number of weeks and include it in the awards when they are negotiated to trade off productivity or annual leave.

To have everyone paying for middle class bribing - which is all Abbotts PPL really is - is just insane policy. I'm happy to pay my share to support young families who need help, but not those whose income allow them to rack up high levels of personal debt that will be unfairly given a far greater amount than those that really need the help. 

We do need a PPL scheme with the burden placed on young families with the current personal debt levels, but it needs to be fair. As a society we need to be supporting young families who will be paying for our old age care in the long term. As part of the discussion child care costs need to be included.Fairness....

PPL to one mother $150k/annum

PPL to another mum less than $20K/annum

All paid not by employers but by us tax payers. Yep, seems fair to me............not sure where you're getting the figures from Andie.

Most public servants wouldn't earn a third of the amount your talking about. Someone on $60-70k per annum isn't going to get a 500% pay rise the day they fall pregnant, public servant or not.

If the tax payer is going to foot this bill, which is Abbott's preferred model (can't be having the party donors getting charged, can we) then it should be along the lines of ALL other tax funded benefit. It should be a set figure regardless of income before THEY make the choice to have a baby, and it should be means tested.




As a supplier to the Evil Empire that is Woolworths I can tell you a PPL there is a LONG time coming......@APM
"I read most of the media in this country daily and I can assure you that the ABC stands out as the media outlet that is most aimed at one particular segment of society and skewed accordingly."

Hilarious. Then you add this to really knock us off our feet:

"The Sydney Telegraph is not conservative"

then this thigh slapper

"the Left think too much information and rational questioning is immoral"
 

or this stitch splitter

" I don't know why anyone would want to hear news from an organisation who support censoring and activism" FROM A TELEGRAPH READER lol

You are one seriously funny dude APM. When you next playing the Comedy Club?

When did the meaning of "bias" become redefined as telling both sides of a story and letting all voices have a say?
In the fevered mind of the conservative that claim ANY differing opinion must be bias I suppose it has always meant that, but in the real world where the ONLY ones really questioning what is going on are the Lefties.........

GWB said "if you ain't with us, youse is against us". Sums up the conservative mindset perfectly. Anyone with a differing opinion MUST be bias!!!

I think the funniest bit in your post is how you "want to assure us" of the bias in the ABC. Not "it's my opinion they are bias". Not "there appears to be too many voices from one side compared to the other". No, not at all. Just a statement of "fact" from the font of all wisdom condemning the ABC - despite the evidence to the contary with bloggers freely posting opinion pieces from all sides of politics. Your beloved non-conservative Telegraph won't dare do that.

When people from LNP branch offices with opinions like the many you have posted so often declare they "assure us" the ABC is bias it proves the ABC is ANYTHING BUT.Unfortunately Yank, they stand condemned by their own actions far too often.

Although I consider the US as a positive in today's world, continuing to arm the Israelis to the hilt is my biggest beef with the US. The entire Middle East conflict would be over tomorrow if the Americans stopped arming the Israelis. This is a country who consider the entire Middle East as theirs by grace of some commandment from God, what makes anyone think they intend to stop once they finally finish off Palestine - our allies in two world wars? Until ALL nations trying to grab land from others is stopped, why is it they condemn one and arm another?

As to the current topic, with so much money at stake through the oil and gas infrastructure and the strategic importance of the region, it is a fair bet both sides have a lot to answer for. The answers to who fired the missile, was it intentional or a mistake, or who should talk to whom about investigating was totally lost in the first few hours by the western leaders falling over themselves to blame Russia. While the world watched western jounalists among others rifle though luggage live to air, our "leaders" were trying to look tough on the 6 o'clock news.

One and ONLY one thing is sure now. What really happened to that plane, who fired the missile, and who ultimately was responsible for it will never be truely known. Both sides will point at each other. Any chance of finding the truth was lost in the initial breast beating by our dear leaders."I am repelled by the idea of Abbott getting a boost in the polls over a tragedy."

We all should be, but not for blame that can be laid at Abbots feet.

An elected leader doing his job getting a boost during a international tragedy tells you more about the shallow minded respondants to the poll questions - or the nature of the poll question itself.

The simple minded vote is often fickle - they are also most likely to be swing voters. All politicians know this and aim their message accordingly.@ Keith
"When this is all over the old tony will be back just as nasty and mean with all the B.S coming thick and fast its how he is he can't help it."

No it won't. Some cooked up emergency at sea with asylum seekers overthrowing our Navy or some other such non-sense will happen - and we'll all be nailed by the weapons of mass distraction yet again.I'm wondering if APM would consider gbe's post as ABC left wing bias?

I found the article reasonably positive about Abbott's handling - it actually shows his numbers going UP.

Yet gbe sees it as the ABC "rounding" on Abbott again.

What is it with the conservative mindset that ANY form of truth or empirical analysis - even when it it POSITIVE - the ABC puts out is seen as "rounding" on their poster boy?Port Arthur had little to do with Howard retaining office for so long. It happened very early in his first year of office, yet he suffered large swings against the LNP in every federal and state election up until 2001. He very nearly lost his first election  after enjoying a huge majority in his first term. Then MV Tampa appeared on the horizon.

And with the MV Tampa came the redneck vote.Haven't looked at all I'm suggesting.

The article is about the upswing in support for Abbott - it's actually a POSITIVE article.

But hey, how can you claim the ABC as bias lefties if they start printing positive articles about poor old Tony? Best just to carry on ignoring facts, seems to be working out all right at the moment for you.You can't phase out things like stamp duty - it allegedly pays the cost of paperwork/searches/approvals etc that need to go on when a major asset changes hands.

But therein lies the rub - stamp duty is the greatest rort any government has come up with. The same amount of work goes into the change over regardless if the property is worth $5mill or 5 cents. Yet they charge a duty as a percentage of the market value.

The same applies to car change overs. Stamp duty is the result of the user-pays mentality gone mad. In todays age of computers the change over paperwork is quick and simple, the duty SHOULD reflect that cost - NOT the obscene amounts of money they charge at present.

And of course you get the privilege of paying a further 10% GST on top.......
Absurd idea from someone that should know better.

We'll be paying the economic price of inflated house prices for decades to come after 12yrs of Howard and Costello deliberately inflating house prices. All we need is another insane pumping effort, albeit a well meaning but misguided one.A "white" country.....

That statement says more about YOU Jim than it does about anything else.

gbe is right, we need to discuss and establish exactly what this country can sustain in terms of population. But we must do it sensibly without the sort of ignorant trash talk like statements of a "white" country.

The entire white population in this country are the stock of immigrants - many whom were originally also refugees.@ Giles
"Indeed Malcolm Fraser ensured that the vast majority of Vietnamese refugees were processed off-shore and arrived in Australia by official means. Only 2000 came here by boat."

The official figures arriving in Australia by boat from Vietnam were 2100 from a total of 57 boats.

What does that tell you when over 700,000 fled Vietnam by boat to the nearby?

What it tells you is a humane and timely bi-partisan response by the Fraser government and then opposition Labor party  solved the boat issue. No vote buying, no "terrorist" scare mongering, no secret on water operations.

So why the chest beating, secret and clearly inhumane response now? When did dealing with refugees become akin to putting the country on a war footing?

The LNP may well claim their hard line is "working" (in so much as no one really knows what the hell is really going on), but clearly a more humane response in the past worked far more effectively. 

They only do it garner the redneck swing voter, and shame on us for letting it happen.

Just a thought Peter

EVERY SINGLE ONE of the "illegals" involved in the Tampa episode were resettled here as genuine refugees.

Was that Labor's fault as well?Utter Rubbish. Initially some were resettled in NZ true, the rest given TPVs and sent to Narau while claims were processed.

ALL were found to be genuine refugees, and most have gone on to obtain citizenship.@ Tator

Of course the big one is the "no broken promises" promise. None, ziltch, nada, nil, nothing. Not sitting at 6 and 44 in the balance.

Not that this is all the LNP's fault. This is pragmatism at it's finest. It really is we the voting public to blame, or more specifically the "pay-attention-at-the-last-minute-as-we-enter-the-polling-booth" swing voter.

Until we ALL as a nation demand better by educating ourselves, taking more time to decide what direction they would like the country to head in, and stop voting based on what door stop headline grabbed your hip pocket nerve last, we will be forever condemned to the standard of politician we have now.

The political statagists knows they don't have to convince everyone to win an election. They just need to convince enough swing voters who simply don't care enough to really take an interest in what is actually going on to get over the line.

It's little wonder the political climate changes as often as the wind does. A small minority of the population decide elections in this country. By and large they are the ones least likely to take notice, or even care too much, about what is actually happening.Abbots biggest sin is the one of omission.

He'll rack up enough broken promises during his hopefully short time in office to make the alleged one Gillard made look trivial by his own rhetoric on the matter.

The real sin is in what he NEVER told us about during the campaign or his three year dummy spit in the lead up to it.
After a BBC reporter went through some poor souls luggage live on air in the first few hours after the downing , just who is it exactly we need to be protecting against?

Imagine sitting at home and seeing your missing sons or daughters backpack being rifled through live on air........

Agree. With dignity and some aplomb imho.

Contrasted with Abbotts "give me another coffin to preach on" approach in an attempt to look like he is running the show.

Less would have been more in this case. A quiet dignified and understated approach would serve far better than the frequent press conferences. Particularly in the light of the LNP positions on stuff it doesn't want to talk about, the many media briefings are starting to look like Abbot saying "look at me being statesmanlike".

A shrewder poly would have made sure they couldn't be accused of that - ever.Mandate.

Now there is a nice word. Based on Abbots own definition of the last election as a referrendum on the carbon tax ALL the Labor and Green members were elected with a mandate to OPPOSE the repeal.

Hell, given the documented BS Abbott spun during the campaign and his 3 year dummy spit over the 3 independants seeing him for the fraud he is, even the ligitimacy of any mandate he may or may not have is in question. Remember HE used an alleged broken promise to question the ligitimacy of the previous government. By his own standards his own ligitimacy is in question.

Now if we were living in a US presidential system of government instead of a British Westminster system your mandate statement might have some credence. Until we do get a presidential system then it up to each individual elected member to carry out the wishes of the majority of their OWN constituents. Why you would consider that a member for a western Sydney seat should vote for the wishes of the people in some WA mining seat??

You might not like that Benny Boy, but it's what we call "democracy"Yes, unfortunately is one of the big cons from Howards years in office.

All he did was get the states to agree to a reasonably uniform set of laws in the wake of Port Arthur, many of which have been changed since.

It was Howard as then opposition leader that refused to back the Hawke / Keating government to nationalise gun laws. Port Arthur may very well NOT have happened if Howard had been onside then as the types of weapons used may not have been still available in this country.

As it was he bulked at taking national control, even though nearly all the states were willing to cede authority at the time. It was an opportunity lost, and yet he still gets praise for what?????@ the nose

Murdoch "used" to be Abbotts boss, who the hell is running this country?


Indeed. From Abbotts own mouth during a speech for the Australian's anniversary regarding his time as a Murdoch employee "In truth I never left".

The man has never uttered truer words.Abbott initially wanted armed personel according to the first unarmed.

They'll be in the firing line soon enough, and it could be argued way too many will be. At least unarmed there is less likely hood someone will do something stupid, but it also makes them an easier target.

Sending them into a hostile enviroment both in terms of a ground war AND a political war is a massive risk to them. Both sides would have a vested interest in seeing them unharmed whilst the world watches. Conversely, if the worst does happen, both sides of the conflict could gain political milage if able to blame the other.

We have to send some - the total number is anyones guess as to the correct amount. What they don't need is the chest puffing to send them off.What Paula meant to write was "the diabolical lack of intellgence in the community about such issues, as exemplified by John whom most likely will post some non-sense later on down the page""So Miowarra how many airlines were using that route on the day MH17 was shot down.How many airlines are still using that route today.The route could have been closed by air traffic control if it was deemed dangerous.It wasn't so Malaysia Airlines was quite right to use that route.They were just unlucky."

Indeed unlucky. 100s of planes had flown over that week alone, including Putins own jet. 

But whats a risk of one plane if you can do 1000 flights over a war zone safely before you lose one? Even our dear allies the Americans shot down a civilian aircraft during Gulf War 1, although it wasn't even in the declared no-fly zone at the time.

I dare say if the airlines were to ask their passengers if they liked the idea of passing over a war zone where numerous surface to air missles were being fired regularly there would have been a very quick reloading of passengers onto anther airline taking a different route.Too stupid for Dad to let you run the family business? Join the LNP and become an MP.

Can't get a decent post in a cushy union job? Join the ALP and become an MPON planet BF maybe.

Back on planet Earth Labor and Green members did exactly what it was they were elected to do, oppose the repeal.

Who knew what the PUP were doing? They themselves were struggling to keep up with Clive's thought bombs, how was anyone else supposed to?@ BF

" That is; rally the rank and file and bargain your way on every issue thus ensuring that every situation takes longer than it it should to be resolved. Typically a Union method of attempting to hold a powerful position whilst not being able to create same."

Only a right wing zealot could see consultation, negotiation and debate as a weakness.

Far better to make a CORRECT decision than a hasty one. Leadership is far more than making decisions for the sake of making a decision. It's about making decisions that are fair, will be supported, and have a reasonable chance of actually happening.Once again we see the shallowness of the conservative voter mindset.

EVERY progressive voter is currently on the dole apparently. Whoda thunk it?Firstly - NO ONE is wanted "unqualified acceptance" of refugees. NO ONE, not even the Greens want that, which leads to your second point about racism.

Call a spade a spade. The LNP have been appealing to the racist votes since Tampa turned the polls around in western Sydney seats like mine of Lindsay, where many of the electorate had NEVER met a refugee or a Muslim in their life.

Nothing like an enemy to scare the masses. If they wear a scarf or follow some weird religion more the better. If they have no voice and can be demonised as "terrorists" the jobs already half done.awesome quote.

One well learnt by far too many politicians unfortunately.The Greens advocate treating them like humans, NOT cattle, and assessing their claims fairly. That's a long way short of the shock jock rhetoric of "unqualified acceptance".

The Greens want claims investigated. Again a long way short of not questioning them, indeed they wanted them tested. Compare to the government approach of "we're Aussies, we don't do anything wrong" then trying to ignore the issue in the hope it goes away. Personally I'd prefer to know for certain those acting on out behalf are doing the right thing.

As to these frequent claims of how much money changes hands - just how do YOU know? Undoubtably money changes hands to pay the smugglers, but where do you people come up with the amount? Do they pass flyers or catalogues around listing the going rates? Is there an STA type travel agent that lists the fare? If these people are so darn wealthy they could live like kings in their own countries why do they want to risk life and limb getting on a leaky boat?

At best you're guessing, at worst you're talking out the wrong orifice.@Andie 
"You try to tell ISIS they are not muslims. They campaign on being the only true muslims."

Andres Brevick and Timothy McVeigh were devout Christians.

Doctors and nurses working in abortion clinics in the States live in fear of being shot by some religious nutjob.

Countless Christian clergy have committed unspeakable crimes to the youth of the world.

These people were/are NOT Christian in the same way ISIS are not Muslims.+1 @ South of Saturn

Ignorance is the root cause. Muslims, like the Asians before them, bear the stigma of looking "different" to us Aussies. They are an easy target for our hatred.

History has shown ALL major religions went through periods of aggressive hostility to other religions. Inquistion anyone? To taint all Islam the way guys like Bolt do because of a handful of criminals (a handful compared to the nearly one third of the world population that follows Islam) is just plain ignorant. 

Even the peace loving Hindus have had violent uprisings in their past. To imply that Christianity is somehow better than Islam based on the level of violence is absurd. You don't have to do much research into how both the Bible and the Koran "promote" violence" to realize the Faith out dear leader professes he follows doesn't come out too good in the comparison.@mick
So here's an Australian kid taken to a war zone with his dad and holding up someone's head .. your response


Reaction? The guy is a criminal. Treat him as one without the irrational appeal to racism the conservative so loves to use to boost poll numbers.Sane people DON'T taint an entire religion on the basis of a few radical nutjobs.

Sane people DON'T fear the unknown - they find out about it and learn to live with it peacefully.

Sane people DON'T keep funding a military like the Israelis to systematically wipe out another nation and NOT expect blowback.

Since before the first world war it is the WEST that have created the festering sore that the Middle East has become, and ALL down to OUR thirst for black gold. It wouldn't have mattered if they were Muslim, Christians or bloody Jedi Knights - if you continually get screwed over like these people have been you get angry.

Even further back WE Christians were invading and killings millions in the bloody place on the basis that WE had the one and only true religion.

We reap what we sow.@Realist
"I think you neglected to factor in pre-GST sales tax, which renders your post null and void."

Unless you KNEW how the previous sales tax worked.

ie. NONE on manufacturing inputs. NONE on construction inputs. NONE on staple food stuffs

Which makes your point null and voidoh dear John, do you vote ???


Tony Abbott 27 April 2011
"Whyalla will be wiped off the map by Julia Gillard's carbon tax, Whyalla risks becoming a ghost town, an economic wasteland if this carbon tax goes ahead," he says.

http://www.abc.net.au/local/stories/2011/04/27/3201383.htm@mick
"Today it's terrible that the government has a plan?"

I think you missed the point of the article, mick.

It's the type of plan that is the problem. When security - REAL security - comes second to what your chest beating does for your poll numbers then we all have a real problem.

We need a well thought out approach to national security, not, as Green points out, an ad hoc reaction the like we saw this past week. When the name of the game is "look at how tough and statesmanlike I am" rather than the considered detail that the latest brain blip would require, we have a problem. 

When they go national with every thought they have, rather than helping those whose job it is to make these policies work, they actually make it harder for those people."If a car hits a pedestrian, death is a real possibility. 
If a bike hits a pedestrian, death is far less likely. 

Kinetic Energy = 1/2 mass x volume x volume"

@ aGuy

although I agree with your sentiment, you have the equation wrong

Kinetic Energy = 1/2 mass x VELOCITY x VELOCITY


"Your "right" to use the roads is tied to your payment of registration and insurance,"

Mute point really. Our taxes also go a long way to pay for these things. As many bike riders on their way to and from work would indeed be tax payers, your point is rings hollow.Unrelated issues. As a cyclist I too would have no issue with bike rego for adult riders. Although I expect administration costs to run the system would be far in excess of any money raised. It would be unworkable if too expensive and simply ignored by many people, and pricing it at reasonable levels would mean it won't support itself.

I dare say the same whingers would be quickly singing a different tune if a scheme was set up that was simply a "feel good" plactator of the big mouth shock jocks that lost squillions just to administer each year.

But to claim bike riders don't help pay for the infrastructure is plain silly. Unless that nasty sum on the second last line of my pay advice is wrong of course."I really don't understand where this attitude that a person can only own a car or a bike comes from."

From ignorance and self interest most likely.

Every bike you see is one less car on the road in the traffic queue in front of you. Instead of complaining people should be thanking them.

Unfortunately, we cyclists at times are a little too eager to point out to a car driver if they are in fact driving like a maniac, and many car drivers think they are Gods gift to the motoring public and simply don't like their faults exposed.

Time both sides of this debate cooled down. It's not nice to think you're entering some sort of war zone when you mount your cycle for the 10minute ride to work or head off for your Sunday morning ride"Worse yet are all the idiots that get on blogs and insist that they have every right to do whatever they please because they're a cyclist so they're special."

Of all the blogs and threads on this subject I have read, and they would number in their hundreds over the last two decades or more, I've yet to read a bike rider claim they are above the law.

True, you do see the occasional bike rider take calculated risks at times. I say calculated because MOST times they know what they are doing.

Compare that to the speeding driver refusing to slow down in school zones. Or the teenage P plater on her mobile texting her boyfriend, or the hundreds of drivers we all witness everyday suffering from head-up-bumitis. Then re-read some of the posts from these same drivers that spill vile and hatred on someone that is actually doing them a favour.Easy answer - that would open the system up to rorting on a huge basis.

You'd have the father of a family having his wifes' and three kids car all registered in his name to avoid the rego costs.

As most of our rego pays for the CTP that would mean huge increases and less payouts for those that do suffer injury from MVAs.And crash statistics don't bear out the "safer" myth about 4WDs either. Unless they have the 5star NCAP rating you're as likely to hurt yourself in one as not.

They're more likely to roll over. They're more likely to be involved in rear-enders, more likely than a sedan to kill your grand kid as you reverse out the driveway, and they're more likely to be the at-fault driver due to the larger blind spot on them when doing things like changing lanes. As a commercial verhicle most are also not subject to crumple zone design requirements of the average family sedan.

all the while putting every other driver and road user at risk of your stupidityBoth Howard and Rudd/Gillard's biggest opposition to the solar rebates schemes where the energy companies. With little wonder, too.

With a 13% reduction in demand over the last 5 years as people moved off-grid, instead of the 5%pa increase in demand they thought would happen no wonder we are being hit with price rises to pay for the "poles and wires" (or was that the carbon tax?)
"aeoulious, seriously, I don't need a lecture on the greenhouse effect,"

I beg to differ, if you consider CO2 a non-pollutant you most seriously DO need a lecture on green house gases, as you clearly either do not understand or are being willfully ignorant.

ANY substance in excessive amounts is a pollutant."that is why I am trying a different approach"

No use, they'll most likely just switch the point of the argument and claim pollution is good for you also.

reading through some of the recent posts I think the movement has already started@ Schadenfreuder

Indeed the Greens did no one a favour when they made the tactical error they did in holding out for a better scheme. Even I as a Green voter wasn't all that impressed with the blue.

But we did get something that was working. And as we have just seen after the lies and hypocrisy that got Abbott elected it met NO legislation was safe if it hurt their paymasters.

Sad day for Australia.Another cut-n-paste from the Watts site.

Heaps of scientific cred on that site..................

not.Please, be reasonable. There have been no new coal generators, nor increased coal generation due to the carbon price. In fact, Collinsville, Swanbank B, Munmorah, Morwell, Northern and Playford have all shut down either fully or partially.


You can't blame that on the carbon tax. Plant closurures were happening before the tax become law.

Firstly, all energy companies in the country are faced with huge costs for infrastructure maintence. They have to make a choice where to spend money, as do all businesses.

Secondly, five years ago it was predicted by those in the industry that electricity usage would increase by about 5% per annum. It has in fact fallen by a total of 13% in that period due to factors such as more domestic solar being used, and more energy efficent appliances being brought.

That is why electricity providers won't invest in new plants. Their current plants are already producing TOO MUCH power than needed. As more people go off-line with domestic solar the need will be even less.

That was until today's insanity moved the goal posts again. Who knows what will happen now when electricity providers may well be given a government grant to build plants they don't need?
Zing

I see one problem with that approach. Us.

We are the end users of the products these companies make. We should have to pay our share too.

No free rides for anyone to fix this problem unfortunately. Although the scheme Abbott has put forward has made sure only one side will be forking out and the other will be raking in.Indeed

Apart from modern medicine, bridges that don't collapse when we cross them, safe transport, electricity, food to eat that won't kill us, water that doesn't carry fatal pathogens, and the bloody aqeducts, what has science ever done for US?

Best we continue to treat these no-brain sciencey types with the distain they deserve. It's not like they run a talk back show or have a syndicated column in a national newspaper like Alan Jones or Andrew Bolt.Energy Australia recently sent me a letter informing me of a 7% increase. Ironically I received it the very day the repeal legislation passed the lower house."Many councils are now saying that is not going to happen. Too hard to calculate they say. Hmm."


Not too many of the LNP controlled state governments had much trouble calculating the costs when it first came in. Nor finding space on government bills to paste their propaganda.

I suppose maths is also a science. Now we live in a world where science and it's purponents are the devil incarnate the bean counters in the LNP electorate offices can be forgiven for not wanting to do the maths again.those projects are real productive jobs - construction, manufacturing, services - that employ people to pay tax and spend money in the economy. "

This is one concept just way too hard for the denialist to understand, mostly because it flies in the face of their denial.

Once built renewable sources require very little investment to keep producing. As time passes they will still sell the electricty, yet not have to pay out for thousands of tonnes of coal to be delivered to the furnaces each year. 

It's one of the driving forces behind the renewable uptake world wide. You don't even have to believe in climate change to see the sense in the economics. It may be expensive today, but come a few years....

Unfortunately, many like John M see all renewable as evil and can't see the any of the logic of the economics because Tony told them "it aint so"
@ JB "Yes, the tax is dead, so is progress. Ding Dong, hello 20th century thinking."

hello 20th century thinking. 5th or 6th would be closer to the mark

We should also mark the passing of science. I look forward to the first harbour crossing or sky scraper engineered by a Murdoch jounalist or my next visit to the chemist with a talkback shock jock behind the dispensing counter."Now that the carbon price has been repealed, we're unlikely to see much of a drop in the quarterly electricity bill."

Indeed.

On the VERY day the repeal first went though the lower house my mailbox had a letter from my supplier informing us of a price increase in the order of 7%. It even had a paragraph telling us that the impending price cut due to the repeal of the ETS would most likely NOT cover the full 7%.

The bill still had the carbon tax component noted. Nothing on it about the rise due to infrastructure maintenance component though...."Now that the carbon price has been repealed, we're unlikely to see much of a drop in the quarterly electricity bill."

Indeed.

On the VERY day the repeal first went though the lower house my mailbox had a letter from my supplier informing us of a price increase in the order of 7%. It even had a paragraph telling us that the impending price cut due to the repeal of the ETS would most likely NOT cover the full 7%.

The bill still had the carbon tax component noted. Nothing on it about the rise due to infrastructure maintenance component though...."3) Climate denialist liars depend on deliberate deceit, cherry-picked non-fact and conspiracy theory to promote their misinformation."

Such as Alfies assertion temperatures haven't changed in 17years. How long will this bit of internet wisdom survive despite the facts that disprove it being so readily available?No less than 3 three-word slogans in the one post.

Do you work in the PM's office? No matter how many times the "no warming in 16yrs " is repeated won't make it true.

Or is that 17yrs, or two decades, or is it whatever the internet blog site you are currently reading says? NONE of them can agree and NONE of them can actually come up with any evidence other than ONE article written in an English tabloid that was discredited the very day it was written.

But hey, if you do work for the Libs you'd be long practiced in the art of repeating a lie long enough for it to become fact."No warming for 17 years is not a theory. It is the result of empirical measurement and has been accepted by none other than the IPCC."

Utter rubbish, long discredited and simply NOT true.
Can you people actually count?

That "minor" amount we have been adding to the natural cycle has been happening every day since the start of the Industrial Revolution, and has been exponentially increasing year-on-year.

The ACCUMULATIVE effect is what matters here, and the effect that it has on positive-feedback increases such as the ability of the ocean to soak up CO2 and the amount being released by the melting permafrost. To put it words with very few syllables for you - the MORE we put in the LESS nature can deal with.

As to your claim about ice core data showing NO correlation between CO2 levels and global temperatures you are so far wrong it is laughable.There is certainly a lot of deliberately misleading information being peddled.

AJC is doing a great job at it.Unfortuately, arguing with the willfully ignorant or the willfull liar is waught with problems, mostly when they continue to cite discredited data such or misrepresent the data as all your post do.

Sometimes calling them out is the only option."It was my understanding that temperatures haven't plateaued, but have not risen as fast as some models predicted, they have still increased though.."

Your understanding is almost spot on. Leave out the "predicted" bit and it is 100%

The rate of warming has SLOWED slightly, but STILL increased. Somehow the flogs read this clear and obvious fact as NO warming at all, some even consider it a cooling!

These flogs would think if you turn the taps down a bit the bath won't overflow and the level would actually go down!

Since the industrial revolution the level has gone from around 290PPM to around 390PPM.

That's about a 35% increase. At worse Lisa is only 5% of a fraud.Please don't bring up air conditioning.

It will only be a matter of time before we get these flogs claiming domestic and motor car air cons are actually keeping temperatures down.

It makes as much sense as any of those wacky theorys ejj posted.The one graph I love is the overlay of CO2 levels and global temperatures.

And these flogs claim there is no correlation.......The other thing that stands out on all those is the unprecidented increases since the early 70's and the trend upwards all the graphs still show.

When you can take one or two single year data and compare it to the overall trend and then present that as "evidence" no warming is happening you can always give yourself a catchy blog name like 2M2M and act like your talking sense."Why not? Doesn't heating a body cause it to radiate out more energy? Immediately? How was it that this particular burst of heat energy was quarantined from that fundamental law of physics? Or (as you seem to imply)"

I'm not really sure what your arguing here, but you seem to have hit your own argument for six.

Yes, heated object DO radiate heat. In our case the earth radiates it into space, with the bulk of the energy being radiated back within the 24hr cycle we call a "day" in the period when half the globe faces away from the heat source.

That rate of heat loss through radiation is effected locally by such things as cloud cover. Hence why overcast nights in the middle of winter are never as cold as the clear ones.

Globally what also prevents some of that radiation IS greenhouse gases such as CO2. The more there is in the atmosphere the more the insulation effect and the more accumalative energy is trapped. The science is VERY simple, and has been understood for a very long time, or was understood until great scientists like Alan Jones and Andrew Bolt started re-writing the text books.
Dear Sir De Brere

Again you take one years data and ignore the now decades old trend.

This is the one area of this debate that really gets to me. Statisticians would laugh at this method"Scientists reached a consensus that the world was flat. That there was no such thing as continental drift,"

I think this demonstates totally your lack of credibility on any subject involving science.

Scientist as far back as ancient Greece new the earth was round by simply looking at the way the sun and moon traced across the sky. Flat earth was a religous construct and a myth among early sailors.

As to continential drift please do some research. Once the theory was posited the scientific community almost immediately embraced the idea because of the simple elegance of the idea (as "immediate" as is possible when a new theory is raised). The theory has since been refined to tetonic plate movement since the discovery of the global web of underwater rifts during the 40's and 50's.

The problem with your arguments is they are based on half truths, discredited ideology and just plain clap trap as you posted here.Funny also that the main person claiming a religious fervor among the climate change advocates sounds the most like an evangelical preacher on his pulput.Scientific consensus is not faith or religion. If you don't understand what scientists mean with the concept of "reaching a consensus", then study science please!

The really important word here is "consensus", and it isn't only among climate scientist.

Every field of science that studies the natural environment are seeing the effects. Leaving out a small number of geologists employed by mining companies of courseSo now the data you claimed shows NO warming, despite the fact it DOES, is only showing a slower warming rate than "predicted"

Really? Do you actually believe this stuff you write?It would also pay to read some of the REAL science about the subject in relation to Antarctica.

A cooler Antarctica for the next few decades has long been predicted as a result of changes to ocean currents that are occuring elsewhere.

I'd also point you to the ONLY two glaciers on the planet that are actually INCREASING in size, The Franz Joseph and Fox on NZ's south island.

They aren't getting bigger because of cooler weather either. They are growing due to higher rain and snow fall on the mountains being caused by much hotter air crossing the Tasman and picking up more moisture. Again PREDICTED and again used occasionaly by the loony denialists.Convinced the Greens he is pro-environment? Not on this planet he hasn't.

He may have conned Core, but the home grown Greens know full well Palmer's history and were one of the leading voices in questioning Cores intentions regarding the PUP.You cite ONE single person and tar every Green in the country. So ONE ex-Green works for Palmer now.??? I'm sure he has Muslims who work for him too, does that make Palmer a terrorist?

Who was first to question the Gore/Palmer? Milne and the other Green senators is who.A beat up? Really???

Firstly - Palmer is in the House of Reps, not the Senate. He has no power whatsoever to decide what to do in the Senate AT ALL, let alone question the advice by people like the esteemed Ms Twomey.

Secondly he has shown an appalling lack of knowledge about a clearly laid out section of our Constitution. An appalling lack of knowledge in the fundamental running of parliment. An appalling lack of knowledge on just who is working for whom. (hint - as an elected office holder Clive works for US, not the other way around, and this includes the impartial office bearers of parliment such as Senate Clerks).

Thirdly, when an self serving, cashed-up bully with little or no idea about the basic workings of the Westminster system can con his way into a seat in the HoRs it SHOULD be front page news. If it doesn't concern you then you simply haven't been paying enough attention.opps. Read the "esteemed Ms Laing"......"If in fact, that is the High Court's job, surely like most clerks, once you've given your employer your opinion, you go and do as instructed?"

Did you even READ this article? This women doesn't work for Clive Palmer - who incidently doesn't even sit in the Senate and has no right whatsoever to give this woman "instructions". It most certainly isn't within their job to be Clive Palmer's personal sectretary.

In giving advice on the Constitution, something she is very well versed in and has been doing for a few decades now, she most certainly WAS doing her job. It is her job to protect the Government from long drawn out and expensive legal challenges if a flog like Palmer wants to ignore the laws of the land and just do as he bloody well pleases.

Seriously, if you actually cast a vote each election try educating yourself a little better.
Not really. He is of the mindset that his bank balance gives him that right.Not this time is Abbott to blame, SO.

This is an problem down to Palmer, and Palmer alone. The big issue here is the PUP are way out of their depth and being led by a man who thinks his bank balance puts him above the law.It doesn't matter what they call it. What matters is our Constitution doesn't allow the Senate to raise money for a very good reason.

You know the Constitution? It's what makes our society what it is by setting out the rules that all should follow.

Not just those who think their bank balances allow them to do as they bloody well please.It works in the same way you'd go about eating an elephant, by doing it one small mouthful at a time.

We do our part. Meanwhile many, many nations around the world do their part (despite the rubbish the LBP spin on the subject).

It the simple collective response to a shared problem. Beats the "F You, Jack, I'm alright" approach every time."Honest John", ironically enough, was bestowed on him by his own party, when as a member of Frazers cabinet he unintentionally helped uncover the bottom of the harbour schemes many of the LNP donars were scamming when the Libs set up yet another inquiry into union corruption in the 1970's.Palmers mob will go the way of Hanson and her supporters.

Personality parties have a very short shelf life. They rely on a small number of the ill-informed flip-flop vote to get seats in the senate. It will only be a matter of time before Palmer over reaches, and like all matters in life, sunshine will be the best disinfectant for the PUP.

Once daylight is really focused on these morons and the limited attention span of their voters wane, they will see what a ham fisted embarrassment the PUP really are and their support will quickly fade back to one of the major parties again. 

It'll take another six to seven years for the full effect of the last insane election to be dispensed with, but we generally tend to get things right eventually.@ peter

"It would be a sad day for Australia if Bill Shorten was given control of Australia's finances again and having Clive Palmer pulling the strings"

So you prefer the rabble we have now in the Palmer/Abbott government?There is also a growing market today in the storage batteries as a stand alone unit without the solar cells even being attached. Charging during off peak to the units can be used during peak time. 
In the very near future us mugs who didn't take up the solar rebates will face much higher prices as the power companies market share decreases. Power usage has dropped by 13% in the last 5 years thanks to domestic solar and much more efficient appliances.

When it happens, as it will, what tax will the LNP blame the power price rises on then? So much for solar technology not being there "yet"@ John C

Major parties should be worried????

It's US that should be worried!!!

When a mob like the PUP become the party de juex, considering the way our electoral process has been corrupted to allow them to be elected in the first place, WE should ALL be worried - VERY worried.

How is we see fit to elect a group we KNOW to be interested in only ONE mans well being? How is we see fit to elect a group with policies that are not only non-sensical, in most cases are also contradictory. How is it we elect a group that know so little about the government processes in this country the first thing they do is start threatening the elected government with all sorts of nasties unless they provide more staff to teach them how to to the job they were just elected for? How is we elect a group that thinks poo throwing the height of intellectual pursuit?

For over 100 years now this country has done quite well out of the two (occasionally three) party system, with at least one reasonably level headed minor party as arbitor, such as the Democrats or Greens. Right/Left, Conservative/Socialist never mattered as long as there was a group who held the balance that moderated the excesses of either.

God knows it is far from perfect, but it has served us well. Despite what you may think of this current government, the biggest problem we gave ourselves during the last election was to hand the balance of power to a rag-tag group of semi morons with a scatter gun approach to policy.@Steven
"I agree with JamesT that the broader public have not fallen for Clive"

Fortunately, knowing this gives me a re-newed faith in my fellow citizens.

Unfortunately, this won't stop reality biting our exposed rear ends. Even his money isn't to blame for his election, although it certainly helped.

It was the slip up made by those guys writing the constitution all those years ago that thought no one would be so crude as to corrupt our electoral system. Even though the vast majority of people see Clive and his moronic lap dogs for the absurdity they are, Clive and his minders knew full well that the handful of un-thinking voters that would vote them would be more than enough to hand them the balance of power.

Despite my misgivings about Abbott, the amount of power Clive now wields is far more worrying. It is way out of proportion to the percentage of voters that supported them.

All we can hope is they use it responsibly. Somehow with a man so obsessed with his own worth at the helm I'm not holding my breath.@Forrest

"It is worth taking a step back to remember that Australia's democracy is quite robust. There is no doubt that it will be entirely unaffected by Palmer or any other present player."

Are you so sure about this??

The rise of PUP, who a very small proportion of the population voted for, who a very large proportion of the population believe to be semi moronic, is a lesson we should all take note of.

Our "robust democracy" is also one easily corrupted by men like the notorious "Election Whisperer". 

How is we hand so much power to people so few vote for????

Robust? Only if you believe people ALWAYS act honourably, otherwise the word "fragile" would be a better descriptor.Me thinks Mr Gore has been played for the fool here.

Once people that actually know what has been happening in this country wise Gore up to exactly what it is he has just put his name to I'm sure he will be deeply embarrassed at the damage he has just done to his movement.

Looking forward to stories in the coming weeks about how much money Palmer donated to Gore's foundation.

One thing this shows us is just what an underhanded operator Clive really is.Yes, Harvey. It's why conervative governments have been his greatest supporter.

Smash the airline unions at all costs, including the company itself.

All praise the conservative mind set.@ John Coochey
"They are possibly the highest paid and I am not comparing with Third World but US and European."

US pilots are appalling paid, even if you consider a pilot nothing more than a glorified bus driver.

When I go into the air I want the best guy available at the controls. Not some guy who got his diploma from the University of Not Really There Internet Wonderland.

Qantas want someone they can teach how to operate the auto pilot in five easy lessons. If they could use monkeys we'd be getting flight welcomes from Captain Bubbles.

A good friend of mine is an ex Qantas engineer. Time was one flew on EVERY flight to check the plane after landing, pre flight etc. They were among the first to go under Joyce, and pre-flight checks left up to the pilots cabin crews. Very few flights today have an accompanying engineer. How knowing to fly a plane or serve drinks also qualifies you to tell if a planes wing is about to fall off is another matter.

I long ago stopped flying Qantas since hearing some stories from this guy, while STILL working for them. His comments about Jet Star were even scarier. "Only a matter of time" is one of his comments every time he sees a Jet Star add.Whats even more astounding he got the job after doing a similar thing at Ryan Air.

The Alan Joyces and Ziggy Zs of this world have a lot to answer for.So the individual decides, hey Zing?

Thats good then. I don't want any racists,  PUP voters, anyone that thinks punishing the poor and downtrodden is a good idea, Alan Jones, Andrew Bolt, Piers Akerman, Rupert Murdoch, or any bloody conservatives on MY Team Australia.

Tony would be the first guy I'd bench, too. He could use a month or two in the magoos until he found his sense of reality again.Sorry Zinga, dead wrong.

You don't have to employ anyone you don't want to. You don't even have to give them the decency of a response to a job application. Don't want a woman, old guy, Asian, Muslim, Anglo or Jew? Fine, if you're that stupid to assume someones ability is based on your own prejudice, don't hire them. It is NOT actually illegal to reject any application - to a point.

That point is reached if you actually TELL them why you won't hire them. At that point it does fall fowl of the anti discrimination laws.

Feel free to be as bigoted as you like in your own privacy - once your stupidity starts effecting others then it becomes a different story.@ Susan
"Racism is not a privelege of the "anglo" and I for one am sick of being told that I MUST be racist because of the colour of my skin."

Just maybe you get accused of racism for reasons other than the colour of your skin?

Everytime I hear a white anglo in THIS country I laugh MAO. Yes, fully aware it happens in all cultures, but that doesn't make it right. It makes them ignorant as it does white racists in this country.@v

" If the complainant could establish that his qualifications were suitable for the job and/or superior to those of other applicants, the responsibility would then fall upon the employer to prove that they had valid reasons for awarding the job to someone else."

Not so v. Any employer is quite legally entitled to reject a superior applicant over another. Where would we be if this wasn't the case - EVERY job application could be subject to legal action.

Even a simple subjective "I didn't like the guy much" is a good enough reason to reject, regardless of how well qualified the applicant. Employees aren't even legally required to have a reason at all.

Again, this guys problem came about because he told the bloke the reason. At that point it became an offense.It's not the flag that offends Peter.

It's the flogs that want to wrap themselves in it to push their own agenda that other equally worthy Australians may not agree on.

You see Peter, we live in a democracy. Government by the people, for the people. One person, one vote. Proportional representation, individual rights and freedoms, everyone one equal in the eyes of the law etc etc etc. Once a Hansonite or an Abbot start dictating what it means to be "Australian" it loses all meaning.

It also smacks of despiration.@ Cyclophile

"What a sad story if this man, a recent immigrant to an (increasingly) strange land, has lost his business, and probably a lot more, because of one unacceptable racist act."

Indeed.

We as an electorate seem to think of racism highly enough to keep voting Howard in everytime he played the card. Then Abbots and Morrison get the top jobs.

Here is one guy who mistakenly thought that everyone in Oz could get away with it.@ Ann

"Everyone is a little bit racist, and if you don't think you are, it means you can't see your racism. That should be a big red flag."

Indeed very true Ann.

We aren't born racist. Many studies have been done with young children to prove this. It's something we learn.

This is where education comes into the mix. It doesn't take much to realise that not EVERY Muslim wants to fly planes into your building, not every Aboriginal is a drunken welfare cheat, not EVERY Jew wants to kill Palestinians, and not EVERY German or Japanese is hell bent on world domination.

Dislike, even hate someone if you like, based on their actions, personality traits, or personal habits all you want. I actually pity anyone that's hates on someone because of some un-defined "otherness"@ Turtle - Spoken like someone who has never had racism directed at them.

To an "other" (read Muslim, Aboriginal, Asian, Indian) that comes into contact with our white Australian attitudes I see everyday in the workforce I dare say their opinion may differ on the prevalence of it.Zaphod - were that the reason we would all rejoice.

But you know, I know, and the entire electorate know that is NOT the reason.

Why else would the Libs so heavily run the line in western Sydney seats like mine of Lindsay? Boat people no more effect the locals out here than Martians from outer space would. Yet time again they came out here to con my electorate they would be over run by the boats (75km from the nearest ocean btw). Of couse they wouldn't be drowning, which is nice, but they'll soon be here stealling your job, raping your women, and moving into your house. In pre and post polling here it was a major factor in many elections since Tampa.

Not bad for an electorate where I only have to walk next door to meet a person who has NEVER met a Muslim in his entire 48 years of life.Oxfam is an Anglican based charity. They don't stress the connection, but it is there.

But I agree with your sentiment - good people would do good things regardless of religion.

Others do good because their religion tells them they'll get something out of it, and even religious people do good things with no expectation of reward. Equally some of the most dishonest, untrustworthy, rude and racist people I know are deeply religious.

The point is goodness comes from the heart. Religion is totally irrelevent.

Oddly enough Frangi, so do most of the smartest people I know.

I can fully understand people that do believe, particularly those that have been brought up with it presented as fact since they could first hear the spoken word. Indoctrination of decades is hard to shake. What I can't understand is the born-again who laps up such seriously bad fairy tales as gospel.Seriously Peter, ANYONE that starts believing ANYTHING from either the old or new testaments shouldn't be considered as "bright"

I can understand people who never bother to fact check the dribble will believe out of shear bone laziness, but any that seriously question it, research it, and still believe are just gullible, not bright.Logic long ago stopped working on the religious, Peter.

Take the story of Abraham, the founding father of Judasim, Christianity and Islam.

In his 90's his wife and her maid left civilisation and started wondering the desert. His wife was barren, and presumably as old. So good old Abraham fathered a child to the maid, then to top it off his wife had a kid as well. As if a 90 year old fathering children in an age when a 30 year old was a anicent isn't stretching the bounds of belief enough, we learn he gets ordered to kill his kids by God himself.
Here it gets a bit hazy, he either disobeyed God or carried out the orders depending on whose account you read. Apparently he did both - as one son went on to found Judasim, the other Islam, and BOTH attended his funeral some 300 YEARS LATER! Abraham apparently lived to see his 400th birthday.

THAT logical and highly plausable story is the basis for all three major religions on the planet today. 

Thank God I'm an Atheist."These are the very same people who Abbott targets with his childish slogans."

@ the nose

unfortunately for Tony these same people are more interested in Palmer. The "I don't know" and "I don't care" vote belong to Clive now.So you want them to tailor answers based on YOUR personal belief.

In case you miss the point of these type of polls, in order to take away the circular argument issue you ask the SAME set of questions about the two different groups. Not ones pandering to your personal sterotypes.

If they did what you seem to be inferring the ONLY answers they could possibly come up with are circular one.Interesting point of view, Peter. Unfortunately the facts don't support it.

Elections for many years in this country have been decided by swing voters. The guy that doesn't make up their mind until polling day and simple won't bother to inform themselves of the real issues. These people who lapped up the slogans and put Abbott into power.

You can thank your lucky stars companies don't vote. You'd be in a world where pay is less than $2 an hour, you'd have no clean drinking water, and the environment would long ago become nearly unlivable.Another nice piece of number crunching by EM. Just wait for the howls of bias, right about....................................... now.

The most interesting numbers come from the economy question. Although Libs rate higher than Labor on their overall economic management, and their support for small business and the middle class, Labor lead in the stakes when it comes to who runs an economy better for the individual.

What this says to me is entrenched views are hard to shift. We don't think they do any good for Joe Average, but do ok on everything other areas of economic management (only just, and as pointed out the numbers are dropping). Is this a Pavlovian response after years of Murdoch propaganda?

Unfortunately for the LNP, there isn't anybody on the vote register named "Middle Class", "Small Business" or even "Overall". There are however plenty of Joe Averages that will vote for how they personally are effected.

The last paragraph is one of your best guys. Hansonite strategys of false patriotism might work in the USA, but here we usually end up with a deep distrust for peddlers of these bogon tactics. The feeble minded lap them up, but today's feeble minded have a new champion in Clive Palmer. 

Abbott is playing a game that might well come back to bite him on the bum, particularly with the hawkish approach is has been applying to foreign policy recently considering the bleeding of support to Palmer by the moron vote.The problem with that Jess is Clive pretty much want a fair go just for himself.

Witness his sucking up to the Chinese today he so annoyed recently. Once he realised there was a HUGE chance he could lose a lot of customers he changed his tune real quick.

"Looking after no1" should be Clive's slogan. it's about the only one he is consistant on.excellent comment.  For that you deserve a knighthood too. 

Arise, Sir Ray.

The Labor machine disowning their previous record during the Howard years was a fatal miscalculation by Kim Beazley. Creen tried to correct the record, but by then the damage was done. It let Howard and his media masters rewrite history while white-anting the economy, and no-one took them to account for it until recent years when the absurdity of their vote buying came home to roost.Having seen the footage of Ms Triggs and Morrison in the HRC hearing it wasn't a case of Ms Trigg not going hard enough.

It was more a case of someone being totally aghast at the bullying by Morrison. The mans arrogance knows no bounds. How can he seriously argue a detention centre isn't like a prison? I live within sight of Emu Plains prison and it the footage they show of the detention centres look pretty close to me.I'm assuming you mustn't have been in Oz during the last government, or else your failing memory has taken a turn for the worse.

Even though the lower house was hung requiring the co-operation of the three independents to govern, that wasn't the case in the Senate. As today, the balance was with another party, but unlike today, one experienced in the art of negotiation. It is amazing what people of good faith can agree to, without the need for the ALP to even keep Abbots number in their teledex

What we have today is a secretive distrusted government whose idea of negotiation is to hand down edicts from on-high, coupled with a minor party now holding the balance with a total of ZERO years legislative experience between them. A government whose warped ideology is so apparent in their dog of a budget, and a minor party who thinks the whole thing is a game to see who gets the best sound bite on the evening news.It is in the national interest to have the budget in balance.

No it bloody well is not. In fact a "balance at all costs" approach is poison to an economy that needs to grow as it's population does. Who foots the bills for roads, ports, public transport or networks unless a period of unbalanced budget occurs? I find it extremely ironic the LNP strong hold today is North Sydney, an area that owes it's prosperity to both the Harbour Bridge and the Harbour Tunnel, neither of which would exist today if their current devotion to dry economics existed in the lead up to their construction.

What is in the national interest is making sure your budget balances over an acceptable time period. Being in debt is only a problem when you can't service it - which our economy has no problem doing. Balancing a budget IS important, but doing it so you can claim a single days headline in the lead up to an election a year or two away is exactly what got us into this mess in the first place.

You  have to do it and still maintain your revenue base. NOT chase off investment and jobs and effectively kill off an entire section of the economy in the Manufacturing sector on the basis that too many people in it are union members. NOT make it impossible for smart kids in poorer families to get a degree to ensure our prosertity into the future. And definitely NOT punish people on the lower end of the economic scale to save your wealthy mates a few tax dollars.

Make no mistake - the onus is NOT on the ALP nor the minor parties to pass this budget. They have their own constituents that voted for them that would demand of them the exact course of action they currently steer.

The onus is on the government to govern for ALL Australia, that means putting things in it that would be acceptable. That means negotiation and acting in good faith. That means NOT using the shrill blackmailing tactics of recent days threatening tax hikes if we don't all play nice. In short - it means acting like Adults. Like ALL things with this government something they claim to do despite all evidence to the contray.Seemed like a pretty big game to Abbot during his three year dummy spit.

BTW National Interest has NEVER been the same as Vested Interest.PUP appeal to the voters that actually decide elections in this country.

That is the "start paying attention as I line up for the polling booth" voter

Or the guy that thinks Clive is just an average Aussie pulling for the little guy.

Or the guy that thinks simple answers fix complex problems.

In short, the moron.@ Bren

Were you asleep during the previous three years in the lead up to the election?

You must have missed the "Ditch the Witch" campaign

or the constant calls for an immediate election from the very day the three independents sided with Gillard

or the campaign run by the Murdoch press for an election

We just witnessed three years of LNP people demanding immediate elections and a nasty vile hate campaign on a person whose only crime was she could negitotate better than Abbott."It is true that Palmer DOES NOT have balance of power in the senate."

@ Sandra S

FYI the current make up in the Senate is
LNP 33
Lab 25
Greens 10
PUP 3 + MEP 1 + LDP 1
3 non aligned senators (if you consider the FF party as unaligned who has ALWAYS voted with the coalition)

Libs control 33 seats. IF Labor and Greens vote together they have 35.

So the four seats PUP controls plus the aligned MEP and LDP gives them 5. Combined with the 33 LNP it totals 38. Even if the two truely non-aligned senators vote with Labor and the Greens it still makes the numbers 39-37, as FF NEVER votes against the LNP.

This is the VERY definition of balance of power. The reason we are so ill served by our politicians is the ill informed voter. Or worse still the MISS-informed one. Don't become one yourself Sandra. Each party has it's own ideals and consitituancy that voted for it on certain grounds. To roll over and let any government do as they please is both undemocratic and contray to our very system of government. Strong government can only happen when a strong opposition exists. That doesn't mean obstinant - but the running has to come from those on the government benches.

Abbott has one advantage the Gillard government never had. An opposition leader who has made a career out of advocation and negotiation long before he entered parliment.Oh dear.

This is why we get the politicians we do. I feel really sorry for the voters who got sucked in by this fraud. I feel even more sorry for the Australian population that have to suffer the consequences.

The guys owns a multi BILLION dollar business. He makes so much money he slags off the people who buy 95% of the stuff he sells. He has people in his party who think the Chinese are amasing an armarda as I type, and the smartest person in their party is a ex-front rower.

He couldn't give a rats about you or I. He is addicted to his own personality cult, and has the money to indulge his obsession."At the moment inflation is running higher than wages and unemployment is also going up...this aint helping anyone!"

Barney, Barney, Barney....... you haven't been paying much attention to ICAC in NSW lately, have you.

Not benefitting anyone? Then why all the back door donations? The guys paying the big bucks are getting plenty of benefit.

What you are saying here is that Ultimate Conservative Agenda is actually coming to fruition. It won't be long before Gina's ideal of $2 an hour wages is a reality.
One sentence in this article caught my eye more than any other 

"It is now more than three months since the Abbott government released its first budget."

Three months, and so very little of the budget has been approved by the senate since then. Considering the "emergency" we had before the election it is really amazing to see the government's response to the senate. I would best describe it as "Masterful Inaction". Stand up, beat your chest, look as if your busy, but don't actually do anything.

One thinks back to the 100 day anniversary of this government where they had pretty much put their feet up for a few weeks and basked in their own glory before getting down to producing the ideologically driven, nation dividing, and deeply unfair budget. 

When these flogs are voted out next election their legacy will be that they got the Murdoch press to stop the daily shipping news, brought a heap of expensive orange boats to strand on remote Indonesian beaches, and educated the electorate to just what a real danger to our society hard line conservatives really are.Care to list a source for this claim mike?

Just googled his bio. Nothing at all on there about this. For someone so keen to show himself as an unbiased commentator who won't label himself "right wing", you'd think a link to the left of politics in his past would be highlightedThe same was said about the LHC at CERN.

Yet the science to build it has already had a profound, and practical, effect on human kind.

For one, MRI technology is a direct result of the science at CERN. How many lives will it save in the coming decades?

Other notable science adventures have reaped all sorts of benefits. How much everyday technology in use today has been a direct result of the space race?

That's the beauty of science. No one knows what to expect from it. 

That's the beauty of scienceSeriously, if they want to trawl any digital footprint of mine please feel free to waste time they could be using to do something useful. Even companies who want to waste their time and money personalising their adverts to me can feel free, I've yet to buy anything from them in over 5 decades, so I'm not about to start now.

On the other hand, when governments get into this area too deeply we get situations like earlier this week when some internet troll gets held up to the world media as a criminal mastermind for doing nothing more than making a few practical jokes online.So true Dove. You missed the sarcasim in my post.

The point I was making for me personally, and for the vast majority of the population, all that extra man hours watching folk like me, and presumably you, will just be wasted. Meanwhile those that won't want to be traced will cover their tracks. 

This is a pointless exercise for a government to be pursuing. The authorities have more than enough powers to watch any suspect people without 24/7 blanket coverage of the entire population.

In fact it only really makes sense when you consider just who benefits most from this type of data mining. 

Business. Large business. Business with enough money and pull in high places to waste small fortunes on new-age marketing theories the latest blue-eyed Business grad read during his last term at uni. Every time we get conservative government we get this sort of crap, you don't have to be a genius to figure out who is driving this little bit of social engineering.

It's so open to abuse it really isn't funny. The recent case I mentioned above was down to an over zealous copper trying to make a name for himself at the expense of some innocent stooge (albeit a stupid innocent stooge). I'm really concerned about the calibre of people that will be assessing this data. When you stop to think the best and brightest are least likely to be recruited by the average law enforcement agencies, or even the appalling history of our spy agencies with debarcles like the Hilton Hotel and WMD's, we should all be concerned.The words "rational" and "creator" should never be used in the same sentence.

Mention of the second word makes the first word ireleventHow many wild horses have been breed from just a small number of Arabians for the benefit of wealthy horse owners? Your comment about wild horses is irrelevant.

How many people use cruelty to cattle as an excuse to get pissed and waste money? How many people use cruelty to cattle to gouge hard earned dollars off mug punters?

Your comment about cattle is equally irrelevantdo you know the agony most trainer go through when an animal has to be put down, it is heartbreaking to lose any thing you love, whether it is an animal or a child

Although there is undoubtably much of this sentiment about whatif, I'd venture to say IF these trainers were so concerned about the animals welfare then subjecting them to the cruelty of racing should be the LAST thing they do.

Race horse are investments - nothing more. At the end of the day the Japanese horse was little more than a good investment. it earnt over $5mill for the owners. In the long run that's all that counts for this industry."In other words, Direct Action is the policy of choice for climate change deniers."

Sums up modern Australian conservative politics nicely.

Ok, we don't believe that we need to do anything, but seeing so many other people do why not let the companies I hold shares in get massive payouts from the government?

And we voted for this..........yes , seres, reading the article definitely helps.

It looks as though Peris is in trouble for doing her job properly. ie advocating for a high profile athlete to visit our shores. Most in Boltons position earn their living this way.

If Peris tried to get him out here and get some cash herself it would be a different story. Equally if she used her relationship to get him out here gratis it could be seen as inappropriate. All she did was advocate, a part of her job.

Little wonder Murdoch's grubby hands are all over this. In the world of the conservative Murdoch media she is thrice guilty. Being a woman, an aboriginal, and a single woman is all the Murdoch scum need to hang you these days.Let me weigh this up...

One was a private citizen doing a job she was paid for, and doing it well if the outcome was to be believed.

The other an appointee to a plush government position deciding on the future curriculum all our kids would be taught who revealed his outdated, bias and racist views a few days the release of a document he helped author that wants us to downplay the roles of aboriginals in Australia and concentrate on white European history.

Yep, seems a fair comparison to meShe was working as an ambassador for Athletics Australia. It was her job to build relationships and advocate for them, just like every other ambassador on the planet.

BTW Athletics Australia is an independant body. It is partnered with many branches of government, both federal and state. It receives some funding from government, but also from corporate sponsors.

Peris was no more in the "payroll of the taxpayer" than Hawthorn players are because they have Tasmania as a jumper sponsor.

It's now in the hands of the police - alleged extorsion plot. Willingly helped along by the Murdoch grubs.There is always a substanscial amount of support for anyone that cops such an obvious witch hunt.

Slipper got it, Pauline Hanson got it. Even as far back as Howard exorcising all the "wets" like Chris Puplic from the Libs.

The obvious flaw in your point gbe is that witch hunts against LNP members rarely happen unless they do something too stupid to keep quiet about - like misleading ICAC or breaking political donation laws.Power, just like telecommunications and water, was a profit turning business for the governments, none of which they get today.

Telstra for instance was sold for a few years worth of special dividends. Forget the idea Howard sold if off to it's actual owners, the sale started COSTING us within a few years. Another of the economic structural problems Howard left the Australian public.The week they introduced the repeal bills in the lower house I got a letter from my provider telling us of an increase due to infrastructure.

Upon the repeal we received another telling us of a 7% decrease. Net gain about 1%, hardly the massive figures we were constantly misled to believe would happen (not that I ever believed anything Abbott said in this regard even then knowing the real increases were due to failing infrastructure)

The real surprise is to see any spike in cost either way. 

We'll be installing solar next year. Even with the falling rebates it will still be more cost effective than being one of the schmoos still on the grid funding the decades of poor management of the infrastructure.

My energy provider still has the hide to print my alleged savings due to the repeal on the bottom of my bill. No mention of infrastructure cost increases, just the propaganda line from the LNP so they can keep burning cheap coal as long as possible.I think you're reading more into this than there actually is cangaiman.

First and foremost this is about fear. Once we have an "enemy" and the country is basically on a war footing, the scrutiny of government action is quickly lost in the fog.

Any questioning of the government is seen as treason. The opposition of the day can't risk being seen as unpatriotic by the small number of unthinking, casually racist swing voters who today decide elections.  Once we are afraid long held convictions on social engineering can be made law to ensure your survival in power. This is the ultimate goal.

All you say is true cangaiman, but it and more all follow when the government has us afraid.Witness the heartfelt warmth and compassion of the devoted towards their fellow man.

Thank God for Atheists.I wonder if your opinion would be the same if an outbreak started in your community?

I'm assuming you'd be the first to refuse treatment?
"Of course I wouldn't"

Thought not.

I agree with you regarding population btw. But there are better ways of doing it other than mass genocide,. For instance simple education, or the Catholic Church could immediately decree that contraception is no longer a Tool of Satan.

Personally I could never understand the "F you" attitude. In my experience the loudest and proudest "F you" advocates are always the first to whinge they aren't getting enough government help if times turn bad.@ Malcolm

Tend to agree with the idea that satire is a wonderful thing. It's Spurr's judgement about sending them on a university server that has to be questioned.

He would have known the rules. He should have known the consequences if someone else read these and wasn't in on the joke. At best the man was very foolish.

At worst, just maybe he does harbour these opinions.

Either way it calls into question his fitness to sit on a government appointed board discussing the future educations of all Australian kids.Interesting Spurr would go down the legal path. Given he used his tax-payer funded email system (what government employee isn't aware of the rules about the use of such?), and by virtue of the fact  he holds such lofty government appointed positions that does make his views relevent to tax payers, one wonders what he hopes to gain?

I'd have thought a man that put himself in that position would be far better off resigning from the government positions and keeping his mouth shut (out of sheer embarrassment at his stupidity if nothing else), yet he chooses to prolong the public humiliation this course of action will lead too.

This is again an interesting study of the conservative mindset in Australia today. Unless the state Libs swing a conservative judge into the presiding seat hard to see what hope he has of winning this case.
Sorry GBE

Every big institute has rules about this stuff. His own stupidity got him caught out, nothing more."Good heavens! you are surely not suggesting that a member of the judiciary might be biased are you?"

Not really BJ. Just throwing out a line to see what fish bite :)

Not that I'd be naive enough to think that in a state like NSW it couldn't happenre-read the post rik

It's the conservative mindset that thinks a racist homophobic rant on a University network is ok and he'd have no consequences from it.

It's a safe bet to say Spurr is a conservative given this government would never have give him an appointment otherwise.Have to agree Steve. Even as a Green voter it was a bit distasteful.

To their defence though, the author has a point. True progressive politics is today the ground of The Greens, with a small handful on the Labor Left still keeping the light on the hill burning.

Whitlam started the ball rolling towards a more inclusive and fairer society - something the Greens believe deeply in. It says much about the man that a political movement can champion the causes of another parties greatest leader.

Whitlam was Labor - TRUE Labor. It was those Labor principles he championed that inspired many in the Green movement today. Whitlam was a gift to the nation, don't be too harsh on the Greens for proudly proclaiming this great Australian as one of their inspirations. Instead of claims of "grave robbing" I prefer to think of it as flattery of the highest order.@JRM

You do realize the opposite of "progressive" is "regressive".

Give me progressive any day.No JRM. Blocking of supply ONLY happened once the Libs gained the balance of power in the Senate thanks to the most corrupt politician this country has seen giving a vacant senate seat to a Country Party member rather than maintaining the long held protocol of replacing dead senator with someone from the same party.

It was political opportunitism at it's most ugly, and made the 3 years of Abbots dummy spit in opposition look trivial.

It proved the real agenda of the conservatives was power for power sake, and the electorate can go to hell. It was the LNP that willingly chose to bankrupt the government (the country itself was never in such peril, despite some of the rubbish printed about the era).

It was also the days of two very powerful media mogals, Packer and Fairfax, who were both open supporters of the Libs. Lessons Murdoch has learnt well.Bev, that is utter rubbish.

There is footage of disabled helicoptors and Skyhawks being pushed into the ocean from the flight deck of HMAS Melbourne to make way for more people being airlifted out of Siagon. My cousin was part of the deck crews while it was happening.

And they weren't only airlifting Australian staff. Many Vietnamese staff AND THEIR FAMILIES got out of the country that way in the short period available.@ Peter (and Bev)

I stand corrected. I lol'd at you comment when I read it this morning. It is an oft told family legend that turns out to be pure myth.....

My cousin (also a Peter) wasn't a conscript, he enlisted around '67. He did a number of tours on the Melbourne and Vendetta, as well as with the Naval hospital. I can't ask him his thoughts on it now, asbestos got him in 2002. He was one of my boyhood heroes and inspired me to try and enlist in 1979, only to have him spend 6 months talking me out of doing something so stupid.

He lived a tough life after leaving the service around 1976. He become the ultimate hippy, but struggled with drug and alcohol for a number of years. He had a thousand stories about the Melbourne, but it wasn't until his death I found out he also served in the hospitals and was in country at the time of a few major battles, which probably led to him becoming the biggest peacenik I ever knew.

I did find a foot note about the Melbourne's assistance with evacuating US personel a few years later, and there was a Skyhawk lost off the deck, but it was during a storm, so maybe there is something to his stories. Given the appalling treatment he got when he contracted his cancer I'm forever grateful to him for talking me out of enlisting and pursuing an education instead.Yes Greg, true, but

Yet we were still conscripting until Dec 72. 

Our troop draw down was first annouced in '69 by Gordon following the USA decision to withdraw some 75K men. Far from leading, once again the conservatives followed. In this case they should be applauded for doing so.

Negotiations on a cease fire continued until Jan73. In Whitlams first month he abolished conscription, released draft dodgers, and withdrew all remaining troops. 

Even Nixon wrote that Australia getting out in late 72 precipitated the wars end. It's a point of historical debate today exactly when our involvement ended.

Whitlam never single handedly ended the war. It has never been claimed he did. It had more to do with the US public being fed up with seeing body bags on their TV every night and mounting bills their government was racking up. That shouldn't however diminish the role Gordon, Sir Billy and Whitlam all played in ending the bloodbath.

What he did do was finally draw a line under our involvement and made sure no future government would again use the body mill of conscription to send young men to their deaths. We'd have still been pissing about there as long as the yanks had he not done so.Oh dear Chris, your've outdone yourself this time.

So the "botched" Ebola crisis is down to the WHO worrying about other things such as the Tobacco industry?

Lets put aside the fact the Tobacco industry are a major funder of your IPA, what thought bubble really brought this on? The WHO have been warning about Ebola for decades and the ONLY reason we have something that even resembles a co-ordinated response is down to organisations like the WHO and CDC. Unfortunately for many of the Western governments they still think and act as though outbreaks occur "somewhere else"

You would be better off shining a light on the antics of your LNP. They see fit to pour 10-15 times the amount of money into school chaplins then into fighting this outbreak. Yet you see fit to blame the WHO because they focused attention onto one of the IPA sponsors?

The conservative mindset is, and will remain, a deep mystery.@Noel

These are some of the ones they HAVE revealed to various journos over the course of time - to quote 

"The IPA has heavily relied on funding from a small number of conservative corporations. Those funders disclosed by the IPA to journalists and media organisations include:
Major mining companies - BHP-Billiton and Western Mining Corporation;
Pesticides/Genetically modified organisms: Monsanto; and
A range of other companies including communications company Telstra, Clough Engineering, Visy, and News Limited;
Tobacco companies - Philip Morris (Nahan) and British American Tobacco [2]
Oil and gas companies: Caltex, Esso Australia (a subsidiary of Exxon)[citation needed] and Shell and Woodside Petroleum[12]; and fifteen major companies in the electricity industry;
Forestry: Gunns, the largest logging company in Tasmania; (Nahan 3)
Murray Irrigation Ltd - a major irrigation company contributed $40,000.[3]
In 2003, the Australian Government paid $50,000 to the Institute of Public Affairs to review the accountability of NGOs.[4]"


We all know how shadowy their funding is. These ones would have been easily research given they are publically listed companies that have to disclose this types of things. One wonders about the ones that are a little harder to find out about.

Follow the money, people. He who pays the piper calls the tune.Political donations need to be.
I'm not sure if the IPA rate legally as "political", despite the absurdity of that statement.It doesn't matter where the IPA receives its funding????

Yes it bloody well does! It is ALL that matters when so much money is used to push an agenda of influence that will ultimately effect ALL our lives.

Particularly an organisation who hides much of it's funder's identities. You may like the Alan Jones style of world where the biggest payment gets the most favourable comment, but I'd rather truth the ability to make an INFORMED choice, rather than a brought-and-paid for one.@ rb
"We learn as much from our folly than our triumphs - if not more."

We certainly do. Some hard lessons are being taught as we write.

If universal health care, open access to education to anyone smart enough to earn a place rather than just pay for one, an end to conscription, an end to an un-winnable war, an end to state sanctioned racism, and a chance for abused women to get welfare and eventually stand on their own feet are folly, then bring on more of the same please.

Just think where we would be today if Whitlam wasn't the first western Leader to recognise the importance of China to Australia. While the Libs were still scaring the nation with tales of communist Asians over-running us, Whitlam got on a plane and went and shook hands with them. For one thing Howards time in office wasting a mining boom, paid for with Chinese money, would never have happened. The current crop of conservative politicians would do well to take note of what understanding and co-operation can achieve instead of fear and loathing of a preceived enemy.

No Conservative leader in this nation has come close to achieving a better nation than did Whitlam in his three short years in power, including Menzies.@ v "I still remember the day that Gough visited our school. I was in second form (year 8) then, and my school was just approaching its 60th anniversary."

Whitlam came to my primary school shortly after he was elected opposition leader. (I lived in his electorate). I still remember it clearly, it was the first time I saw a TV crew.

Another thing Whitlam did that won't be in too many records is his help for returned Korean vets. My parents were among a large group of war service home buyers that lost their house due to vandalism before they moved in. Whitlam convinced the then state government to hand over about 30 homes in western Sydney to house the young families. He was as close to a saint for my parents as they could hope for.

I often wonder how different my life would have been had that never happened. The house they lost to the fire was in Oyster Bay, they one they ended up with was in Canley Heights......Faceless men? Rubbish.

He was brought down by a state premier who refused to abide by long established tradition and replace a dead senator with one from the same party. A Country (now National) Party Premier, who himself corrupted the entire political process to keep himself in power.

Once the balance of power in the upper house shifted to the coalition there was nothing they wouldn't do to gain full power, including stopping wages being paid to government employees, bills being paid to subcontractors, and ensuring the banks could still function. The current penchant of the LNP to put a wreaking ball through the economy to score a political point didn't start with the last budget - they are well practiced in the art.

It wasn't faceless men that brought Whitlam down, it was the nasty hate filled politics of the conservatives. A common theme throughout our history."Yes, he held office for a very short time. But God almighty, he achieved so much, so much more than those leaders who's main goal in politics is to hang on to power for as long as possible. "

Yep well said. Compare his achievements to conservative leaders and the truth really shines through.

Over his terms Howard wasted a mining boom on middle class welfare, put armed gaurds and dogs in our work places, oversaw the greatest increase in debt to income ratio this country has ever seen, introduced a GST, left a structual hole in the economy I fear no politician will have the balls to fix, and turned us into a nation of scared, zenophobic racists.

Fraser did some good things by comparison to Howard if you ignore the run away inflation and double digit unemployment. Best of all was treating people we helped displace in SE Asia with compassion and human decency (take note Mr Abbott)

Menzies spent his decades in power building tarriff walls that ultimately left us with out dated and very expensive manufacturing. It took until the Hawke /Keating years for those problems to start being addressed, only to see the next conservative government throw it all away in favour of digging holes and burning coal.



Ironic in the extreme to discuss corruption in light of the fact the crisis that sparked the Dismissal was the result of Joh not replacing a dead senator with one from his own party.

You want to talk corruption do some reading on Johs time in office.

Then as today the Libs had a media mogal in their pockets - two in fact. Packer and the Fairfax families. Best propanda money can pay for.Well said. It's a day we should all be thankfull the man chose to devote his life to our service.

This guy wasn't Thatcher who put 10s of thousands out of work. Whitlam was a true leader, who governed for everyone. Mistakes he made, but he got the important things right, and we are a better country for it (or were until neo-conservative politics tried to undo every decent thing the man did)Thanks largely to work of those that went before. Periods of stability are often hard won. We had a fairly long period of stability before Gough as well, the pity being that just like the Howards years it was time spent standing still rather than progressing.

In Howards case on the back of the money spent by a mining customer we would never have had if not for Gough.Not sure what planet you were living on in the 70's NDP, but it couldn't have been Planet Earth.

Your Libs, through a quirk of fate after a death in the senate, exploited by Joh, was to blame for "almost bankrupting the country". Your mob are still the only ones irresponsible enough to deny passage of money bills for the day-today running of the government. 1975 still today is unrivalled by political bastredry and shear contempt for the Australian public, including the latest efforts of Abbott and co.

You mob have EVERYTHINIG to thank Whitlam for. Abbott, Hockey, Abetz, Pine, Bishop etc etc ALL went to university thanks to him.As a Canley Heights boy, 10 at the time of his election, thanks for reminding me of the sewerage going through.

My Dad and sisters husband were both working on the sewer the day I watched them trench the back yard. It's easy to forget just how little progress was made in western Sydney under decades of conservative party rule. Only when the left became a force through men like Whitlam that people west of Strathfield were even acknowledged.

To think Howard convinced all those Glenmore Park millionares to vote for the conservatives must rate as the sadest indictment of Australian politics ever. With mortgages in the 100's of thousands and struggling to make ends meet each week they lined up to vote for Howard, despite him and Costello's effort at pumping up house prices that would drive many to the wall.Another of Whitlams fellow travellers in Neville Wran fortunately carried on Whitlams reforms in western Sydney.

I was an apprentice by the time Wran was elected. One of the platforms was public transport. In the late 70's/early 80s train commuters were still travelling on rolling stock built pre-war.

I laugh today when I hear whinging about how bad our rail network is. At least the carriages aren't falling apart anymore.Standard drill for conservative commentators, unfortunately.

Trash their reputation and re-write history as quick as you can. If they are still warm, all the better.So Tory, you're a big fan of the "lead from behind" types we have in at the moment?

We elect these people and parties to lead us. Hopefully, like Whitlam, they lead with the intent to make to country better for all, not just a select few that fund their re-election campaigns.

Despite the current neo-liberal ideals of making government so small it's only purpose will be as a status symbol for the idiot son too dumb to put on the board of dad's business - government does and should play a role in how this nation develops not only economically, but socially.

 We need leaders like Whitlam in every generation - the more the current conservatives trash the politics of today the more likely it is another Whitlam will never be seen. The real pity is the LNP propaganda machine in the MSM will kill off any decent politians career the moment they raise their voice against the conservative ruling class.More telling is the idea that this government has committed nearly ten times the amount they intend to spend on helping fight this outbreak towards putting priests within grabbing distance of your children.....Unfortunately reaver, it is not a case of "IF", but "WHEN".

In today's world a virus moves at the speed of an A310 Airbus. With the USA and many nations in Europe and Asia sending people back and forth the idea that by not sending anyone from Australia will prevent it reaching our shores is juvenile fantasy.

Short of a concerted international effort and large slice of good luck, the only hope we have of it not reaching us is to IMMEDIATELY shut down ALL entries into Australia. I know there are many Abbott minded people who would love nothing better, but we do live in a REAL world.

Ebola won't be stopped by packing it an orange life boat and towing it to Indonesia.Really Zing? Another reasons for the zenophobics racists to hate refugees is they may bring Ebola in?

It kills most people within a few day of contracting. The LEAST likely way it will get in Australia is via a refugee boat. One might have a dozen reasons they hate refugees Zing, but Ebola shouldn't be one of them (although it is about a logical as any other reason)

For your information reaver, just in case you missed one of the biggest stories this week, the most recent case in America was nurse that was allowed to board a plane with over 100 people on it.

America, NOT Seirra Leone or Nigeria, where they actually knew the dangers and allegedly had protocols in place.What nurse is that reaver? Your previous post said no one outside of a few poor African nations had contracted Ebola?

If your going to spout rubbish, please keep up with your own diatribe. FYI - Authorities in the USA as of the weekend still hadn't contacted every person on that plane, let alone everyone they came in contact with - potentially thousands. 

They were lucky - no more, no less, possibly helped by the nurses own knowledge that she may have been infected. Next time we might not win the golden ticket.agree 100% Cassie.

To think the current government hand picked this dolt to be telling us what our kids should be learning.

This sort of thing is a good enough reason for me to have him out of the job of educating the next generation. A forced career change is well in order. He'd be quite at home with some of the bigoted, narrow minded racists I share a factory with in Western Sydney. Or he could just run for LNP pre-selection.Racist humour lost it's "funny" in the mid 70's when Love Thy Neighbour was finally axed.

It's never been all that funny in truth, particularly to those groups who had to suffer because of ignorant ideas about racial stereotypes.

It says a lot for society today that some of the truly funny men are using stand-up to show how absurd racial stereotyping actually is. 

Maybe the fact so many of us today don't like this type of humour Dr Spurr used is a sign we are all starting to grow up a bit"Normally, I'd be the first person to jump to the defence of someone writing such things for the purposes of investigation or exploration. I've often said in these threads that just because you've said something, that doesn't indicate you meant it literally or that you yourself believe it."

Agree App. Where would we be with satire?

However this Spurr is an absolute flogg. Writing this sort of stuff on a multi-user network is a sure sign the guy hasn't one ounce of common sense. Even if he was using it as a form of satire, how many people would read these and miss the intent?

This guy could be a living saint for all we know. But in the light of these emails his recommendation about less Aboriginal and Asian studies and more of the Judeo Christian one can only summise his stance is motivated by his own crazy prejudices."it also applies to both sides of the argument. Can you prove god exists? No, can you prove god does not exist? "

@bobtonnor

No offence meant Bob, but the way I see it this argument is among the most silly when discussing religion. It fails one of the most basic principles of logical thinking, ie you CAN NOT prove a negative.

Logically the responsibility to prove outrageous claims in on the people making those claims. 

Simply by pointing to a single text written centuries ago, and re-written numerous times since, by the very people making the same claims is not a very solid platform from which to mount an argument.

To your wider point in your post - I totally agree. The truely wise know how truely ignorant they are. And this is another area "faith" falls over. Religion already has the answers apparently.

The statement I made above would be equally valid if I said only the truely faithful are truely ignorant.Regardless of your attempts to spin my point Mark, the fact remains logically you cannot prove non-existence. 

Existence, on the other hand, is easily proven. Your fruit bowl may not have an apple in it today, but walk into any fruit shop, or a neighbours kitchen, or even look into your own fridge, and hard, factual evidence for the existence of apples will be found.

To say an apple isn't in the bowl today doesn't wipe out centuries of agricultural practice. You can't see air in the fruit bowl either, but do a few basic experiments and you'll soon prove it is there.

Also, logically, the onus of proof isn't on those that don't believe in a divine being to disprove his existence. If I claim existence of apples based despite the non-contents of one fruit bowl, then the onus is on me to prove they do exist, and it would be easily done. We atheists aren't the ones making outrageous claims based on centuries old superstitions, myths and legends.

In the thousands of years of human history has there has allegedly been hard proof of God. Moses - ALLEGEDLLY - was handed 2 stone tablets (3 for fans of Mel Brooks). There are stories in revelations about divine daggers, lances and the like, but Moses is the most notable (odd how many times an instrument of death is handed out willy-nilly by an all-loving God). The Jews thought so much about the tablets monumental significance they ALLEGEDLLY carried them everywhere they went. So where is this hard evidence today? 

Convienently some careless bugger forgot where they put the golden cask down.......For fans of Terry Prachett I think he above all others has religion nailed.

In his Discworld series there are hundreds of Gods. They only exist in that world when they have followers. Once they lose their followers they cease to exist.

Hopefully something similar will one day happen in our world."Arrogant or not, what is it that persuades atheists that they must ridicule someone's religion when they have nothing, absolutely nothing to offer as a replacement?"

@Realist

Arrogant or not, what is that makes religious people think athiests need to offer an alternative?

I think you missed the entire point about being an athiest.

The big problem with education is that every political party want their versions taught.

The sooner politicians get out of the way and let experts develop these things the better. Instead of loading tonnes of useless crap into the syllabus real experts would mine down for the relevent issues.

This latest review is a joke. Most of their more sensible recommendations are already being long implemented (the phonics method for example). As always are few little LNP social engineering gems they love ever so much like attempting to water idiginous culture yet again, and the focus on Judeo-Christian culture at the expense of learning about how others also live.Shorten's big problem is he doesn't have the help of an international media conglomerate running the propaganda arm of his party the way Abbott did as opposition leader.

And this is the exact attitude that puts the world in this mess.

I am so sick of this "my way right or wrong" attitude. It is the root cause of ALL these conflicts.

Whilst ever there are these attitude on both sides no progress will ever be made. While we have people like John willing to back war-mongering leaders to the hilt, those opposed to "us" will always have willing minds ready to return the hatred.

You sir, and these morons you helped put in power, are part of the problem. 

Well said Jerry.

Are we appeasing the hornets by not kicking their nest?

It really is a sorry world we live in when actually trying to understand your fellow human being and live in peace with them is seen as "appeasement".

We reap what we sow, and The West has been sowing some pretty awful crops in the Middle East since biblical times. Since WW1 our addiction to their oil has really reaped a whirl wind.

How many Muslims would be so willing to strap a bomb to themselves if, say for instance, the USA was NOT funding the Israeli army in their insane efforts at genocide in Palestine, a former ally? Or the western world's cow towing to the brutal Saudi monachy? Or the precieved war being waged between evanagelical Christainity and Islam since such war heroes as GWB and John Howard strode the world stage?

The Islamic world have countless reasons to hate us, and very few reasons to think otherwise that gets any clear air. We have tried for decades to solve the middle east problem with hairy chested war-mongering, why not try a peace-nic approach for a while?

I'd rather see the tax dollars Abbott is about to piss away on air-to-surface missiles spent on building hospitals that just may help stem a REAL threat to the globe like the Ebola virus, or schools to educate them, or water treatment plants.

It may be appeasement, but we'd get a lot less people willing to meet their God as a result.What should also be looked at here is the practice of syndicating these horses. It's major part of the churning over of horses that eventually end up at the knackery.

Many of these horses put up for syndication will never win a race, or even come close. When the bills mount the horse is often sold off or dogged. It happens to thousands of animals in this country every year. Not only is the horse treated with utter distain by this obscene industry, the mug punter is often dudded as well.

There is the odd example of a syndicated horse doing really well, but the reason they receive so much publicity when one does become an outstanding racer is because it happens so rarely.

Most race trained horses are useless as pets afterwards. Some can be retrained as show horses, but it's a very limited number. Most will never be suitable for riding schools or clubs because of their flightly nature. None will be suitable work animals, and many are extremely fragile (for a horse) due to the close breeding leading to massive vet bills if you're stupid enough to buy an ex-racer. That leaves pretty much one place for the poor animal. All those dog food cans you pass each week at the supermarket aren't filled with prime angus beef.

The racing industry claims to be caring. Rubbish. These animals are little more than dollars on hooves. More power to the activists that posted this billboard. When the hoi-poli are prancing about in the muddy carpark at Flemington in their $1000 dresses, shoes in hand and pissed to the eyeballs this spring just maybe some of them will reflect on what a shonky, cruel and heartless industry it is they support. They might also reflect on the idea the nag they just lost a tenna on might well be in next weeks can they open for the dog's dinner. 

Personally this is one industry I'd love to see the back off.Malcolm

After reading this article I scrolled down to write a very similar statement. It is nice to see some of the Libs starting to act as though the spirit of Menzies lives on, but one is indeed suspect to their motives.

Abbot spent decades before he became PM building up a long list of enemies, particularly in his own party. The harder he pushes his far right war mongering ideals the more likely enemies within his own party will speak out. 

Julie Bishop's choice of words when asked about the burqa ban are particulary pointed, give she made the rebuke using Abbotts own turn of phrase. When you get a wet squib like Brandis finding the cahones to speak out against his leader it also points to something coming to the boil just below the surface.Take your helmet off. It takes all of 5 seconds. In 35 years of motorcycle commuting I've never ONCE left it on while filling a tank or walking into a shop, even before it was legislated for. 

Better still get rid of the Harley Status Symbol and buy a real bike :)"Yes, you'll often see a sign requiring removal of helmets on entering a bank or service station. Never seen a sign requiring the removal of a burqa or similar though."

That's probably because there hasn't been too many armed hold ups committed by Arabic women wearing a burka. I've yet to see any cultural or religious beliefs that have existed for centuries where motor cycle helmets were a key element of their culture.

Every other day there are a number of hold ups around the country by people in motor cycle helmets. This argument is an absolute non-sense.

I'll be happy to ban the burka when they stop people wearing crucifixes or the star of david. It's not all that long ago the very church Abbott belongs to insisted married women keep their head covered in public. Even today when catholic females take their first communion they are supposed to have their head covered while their male counterparts do not.

Somehow I don't think Abbott is as offended by this practice as he seems to be about the burka-banning-vote-grabbing affront he has when he does his Muslim bashing.Agree David. Technically correct is also a lot better than being completely willfully bloody ignorant as out dear PM insists on remaining.

It's a pity our PM doesn't have Sack's tolerance. Abbots deliberate use of the word "burqa" when he would undoubtably had his error pointed out years ago is telling.

The word burqa has become an emotive term in the brave new world of keeping the plebs scared. It's the garment of choice when you want people to associate Islam with terrorism with it's convienent hiding places for pounds of high explosives.

It's a lot harder to scare the great unwashed with a word like "niqab" when his target audience  wouldn't understand the word. Even harder to scare them when they know what a niqab actually is - nowhere to hide the explosives you see.Is it only the face covering your concerned about? Just obscuring the hair changes appearance more than enough.

All secure areas cater for these situations. It is only news now because Abbott sees votes in stirring up the hatred.

So where do you stand on concessions to companies like Sanitarium that are exempt from taxation laws? Set up as religious charities they attract zero taxation.

I rather see the Australian public go to battlements to get rid of the hundreds of tax exempt businesses that are given "special treatment" than see the mouth frothing hatred being stirred up by someones mum displaying her faith in a higher being, and I'm a Athiest!"The burqua is designed to separate the wearer from the community. "


What an ignorant and totally inaccurate comment.

I'm a devout athiest and even I know the burqa is a open display of an individual humbling themselves in front of their God.

Just like some Baptist sects have women who choose to wear hair covering. Just like the Jews, Catholics, Protestants, Mormons, JWs, and many other religions get down on bended knee to pray. It's actually an act of humility (look up the word, it's meaning might interest you).

Far from separating them from their community it makes them more immersed in it. You do realise there are other communities in this country other than the scared little white anglo ones?"In Western Australia there were reports in the media of men dressed in burkas going into the licensing centres presenting themselves as women to obtain licenses."

I'm thinking the "reports" were in the Murdoch press?

Care to post a link? Nothing on google apart from a number of articles saying how rare it is and of course links to the usual ignorant diatribes about "reports"

Even the google images of men wearing burqas has in pride of place the very picture of the Afghani police woman brutally murdered by the Taiban that Jackie Lambie used to try and scare people.

In fact the ONLY mention of anything in WA comes from their police press site
http://www.police.wa.gov.au/Ourservices/Identifyingpeople/FacecoveringsFAQs/tabid/2074/Default.aspx

and I quote
"the media has focused on this legislative amendment as being the ?Burqa law? as Western Australia Police reviewed its identifying people powers after a highly publicised incident involving a woman wearing a Burqa in New South Wales. "

The new burqa laws (although reasonably sensible) in WA came about because of ONE incident on the other side of the country! By comparision do a quick search for crimes committed by motor cycle helmet wearers.

Seriously, if your only worry in the world is the fact that someones mum wearing a face covering scares the bejesus out of you - I WANT YOUR LIFE!Energy Australia has sent me two interesting letters in the last few months. 

The first happened by chance (no doubt) to come the very day the repeal legislation was introduced to parliament and told me I was about to suffer a 6.5% increase in power cost due to infrastructure maintenance.

After Clive had his dummy spit and the bill was passed I got another letter telling me of a 7% decrease because of the carbon tax being scrapped.

Net gain 0.5%. Yet my latest bill has the hide to include how much I'm now "saving", equal to about 9% of my current bill.

Just who was conning whom in this saga?????Doesn't The Conservative Dictionary define "impartiality" as nothing less than 100% unqualified support for the LNP?
