Good post Mick. I have a friend who was born in Silesia, on the east bank of the Neisse river. His mother's family owned a (very) small farmlet, only a few acres. At the age of 4, my friend and his family had to flee from the soviet army. They managed to eventually arrive in Hanover though they lost one younger child near Leipzig, to the bitter cold. My friend remembers his mother telling him "Our land is lost for ever. This (rented flat) is our home now." Silesia was previously in German territory. Now it is part of Poland. My question is: Why is it that only the jews are expected to give up the land they acquired following successive arab invasions? Should the Czechs return land to the thousands of Sudeten Germans evicted? What of the millions displaced by Stalin? I could go on. Like you, I deplore the suffering in Gaza. But I also think there can be no peace until Hamas, which wishes to overthrow Israel and install an Islamist state, is replaced by the Arabs of Gaza with a secular government.
As to "Zionism", I did not understand its origins until I read Michael Goldfarb's "Emancipation". European Christian scapegoating of jews is a major factor in all of this sad  sh..ty mess. 
Have a good one."So, yet another example where free speech WASN'T constrained by 18C".
 Two things seem not to have occured to this poster. 

1. The example given is NOT at all what those who support free speech are concerned about. It was just a sad, abusive rant. (And I think the woman has been pilloried beyond what is reasonable, in the media)

2. Since 18C wasn't needed and the incident was adequately dealt with by other law, then why DO we need an 18C in its current form?

(Now I will probably be attacked myself, for feeling sorry for the woman by those unable to grasp one can feel empathy for a person while condemning their actions!)
Have a good one.Those who are convinced ever-more restrictive laws are a solution may in fact be contributing to the problem. I have recently been reading Augusto Zimmerman's 2013 comments on the Victorian Racial &amp; Religious Tolerance Act 2001. (The Intolerance of Religious Tolerance Laws)

Zimmerman is Senior Lecturer in Law and Chair of Legal Theory at Murdoch Uni.; Adjunct Law Professor, Universitas Kristen Maranatha (Indonesia), President, Western Australia Legal Theory Association and Commissioner, Law Reform Commission of W.A. 
"...such laws may generate inter-religious strife by creating an environment of fear and intimidation among those who merely wish to express their opinions".
 
The answer to racism and bigotry is education in its broadest sense including public discussion, not more and more repressive laws which unnecesarily limit free speech.

Under the Vic RRTA there is reversal of the onus of proof, the accused bears all legal costs while the applicant may rely upon the backing of the state, motivation for any alleged "vilification" is irrelevant and unlike in defamation cases, truth is no defence. 

"The Victorian legislation states that the truth may not be used as a defence against charges of religious vilification."

Instead of laws like this one, we need australian community leaders coming together to work out what works best. NOT this dumbed down, heavy-handed  legislative approach.
Have a good one.Exactly SD! If 18C is any sort of solution it hasn't worked very well.
One could say the same about comparable laws in europe.
The so-called "left" eg. Orwell, Koestler etc. once defended free speech.
 Now the relativists and neo-marxists (selectively) attack it!
Some may genuinely lack the wit to see that such laws are likely to exacerbate the problem. The rest, especially those inclined to authoritarianism, probably just don't care!
Have a good one.Well said Bluedog. I wonder if we will see very much support for a "right of return" for all the christians who have fled from Mosul following demands they either convert, pay a tax or be executed? 
(Not to mention the approximately 900,000 jews who fled or were expelled from Israel's neighbours C. 1948 - 1956.) 

Strange also, that those advocating that Israel hand back its "stolen" territory to Muslim Arabs now living in what was previously Jordanian and Egyptian territory, don't display quite the same enthusiasm for the rights of Papuans in Irian Jaya not so very far from our own borders. 
 
There are apparently over 10,000,000 Syrians either internally displaced or refugees in camps in neighbouring countries. Estimates of casualties range between 110,000 - 170,000. 
In spite of this undeniable evidence of murderous muslim religious intolerance there, in Iraq and in many other Muslim ME and North African nations, preoccupation with Israel's horrid behavour rules supreme! Why is it so?
Have a good one.Exactly John. Well put. The 9/11 terrorists were mostly Saudis and not impoverished, ignorant socially deprived peasants. At least one of the two "Michael Abdels" who ran down and butchered Lee Rigby in the street had tertiary qualifications. 
What I think many simply don't understand is that bending over to accomodate the religiously intolerant with legislation such as the Vic. RRTA is only going to encourage a greater sense of entitlement to "respect" and yet more intolerance. 

This has been tried in european countries. Theo Van Gough was murdered for "disrespecting" Islam. Ayan Hirsi Ali needed 24 hour security for daring to criticise ie."disrespect" Islam. 
In my view, NO religion deserves special exemptions from criticism. Yet we recently saw Uthman Hadar of Hizb ut-Tahrir wanting to talk on the morality of honour killing and claiming he was a victim of "Islamaphobia" when the event was cancelled! 
I supported his right to free speech for several reasons. On the other hand, I doubt he'd support my own "rights" so well in his utopian caliphate!
The Vic. RRTA like 18C, is likely to silence criticism. That is why I oppose such laws. And that is why the intolerant do not.
Have a good one.Yes, the views must be spoken in public (or published). The Bolt case does not seem to be well understood. Bromberg was clear that Bolt had NOT used "hate speech"towards Eatock and others. They complained of being offended, insulted, humiliated and (not very believably in my view) - of being intimidated. According to Joel Zyngier their lawyer, the case was about: "clarifying the issue of identity- who gets to say who is, and who is not aboriginal."
Bolt also suggested that they were: "white people pretending to be black so they can access public benefits." (Zyngier's words above were published in the "Age")  Bolt could have been taken to court for defamation. 18C was used to silence him for expressing his offensive views, not for saying something defamatory he might have found hard to prove. Like Richard King, whose views on the case are found in his book "On Offence: The politics of Indignation", I think passing a law making it an offence to offend someone is even more offensive than Bolt. 
Another point not given enough consideration is that some Islamists, like the supporters of 18C, think "respect" trumps free speech. (Uthman Hadar, who I think should have been allowed his Opera House talk, to give one recent example.) The backsliding of Abbott/Brandis is much more likely to reinforce such religiously intolerant persons rather than foster harmony. Ie., achieve the opposite effect of what it purports to address. This is one of several reasons why I think 18C should be changed, to rightly prohibit vilification and intimidation, but not offending, insulting, humiliating. Freedom of speech is nothing if not including the right to offend others. For a barrister, Brandis has been amazingly incompetent at arguing his case.
Have a good one."The law attempts to require us to behave in a manner which does not unreasonably cause others to be reasonably offended." Unfortunately, as we are seeing in the ME and in Europe, many people seem to be UNreasonably offended. Should one not express an opinion,  knowing some group may be more sensitive than another? Should doing so be an offence? The rioting muslims in the wake of the Danish cartoons no doubt thought they were entirely reasonable, while the publishers were not. The latter had "insulted' "offended" "humiliated" the prophet and Islam, after all. In my view many publishers at the time were simply intimidated into limiting their own free speech. I think it is much better to address racism and bigotry through social sanctons and education. Europe probably has more laws limiting racist etc. speech than we do. How well are they working?
Have a good oneWell fielded Applaudanum. 
Another issue is whether laws should have a place in our dining rooms. Most would already agree they should stay out of our bedrooms.
Have a good one.This woman was charged for using offensive language. The author also points out she could have been charged under another (Transport Regulation Act) and a $1,000 fine imposed. The author seems to be a supporter of 18C. I wonder why the offensive language act under which Bailley WAS charged, could not instead have been altered to provide increased penalties for any such language containing racial/sexual orientation/religious abuse? The author does not address this, but she is right to suggest that real solutions to this sort of sad, stupid and embarrasing behaviour lie within the community. I was heartened to see, on the video I watched on TV, a young man apparently getting between the abuser and her clearly distressed target. I would have done the same. The sensible response to such incidents is more education and the social sanctions which the author refers to. It is also good to hear that some passengers told Bailey to "shut the f..k up". To me, this suggests that many within our community are fair-minded and reasonable. I don't think this incident is in any way a valid argument for retaining 18C in its current form.
Have a good one.Theoretically, anyone could submit an article to the Drum on just about any topic. On the other hand, I am one who thinks there is bias by some individuals within the ABC. That doesn't mean I want it privatised or replaced by some version of the usual commercial rubbish. Often it's a matter of what's NOT said, rather than what is, or even the WAY a thing is presented. The (deliberate? or inadvertent?) "dumbed down" ABC coverage of 18C free speech issues is one example. I agree with your comments on anti-muslim sentiment.
Have a good one.Good post Culex. I have a similar view. I expect though, that some comments here might reflect anger on the inconsistency of some politicians and supporters , who (rightly) voice concerns about laws such as the ones Barnes writes about, yet in the past have expressed no such vocal concerns on the erosion of freedoms in areas like free speech.
Have a good one.You make some good points Harry. I think the reason Australia has (so far) not seen anything quite like the extreme racial and religous violence/murders of Europe may be more down to "Australian values", and not to laws such as 18C. There are clearly serious issues of course, as seen in the Cronulla riots. I think every human society has a tendency to scapegoat others, for being brown-skinned, having a different religion, sexual orientation etc. I can remember thugs from the 'sixties, not unlike the ones seen draped in national flags on the ABC "Punchbowl" program. 
A country can have various well-intended laws, but it is the underlying culture which is more important. I find it baffling how few politicians seem to grasp that the very laws purporting to enhance community "harmony" may be not only ineffective, but counterproductive. This is just one of several reasons why I oppose 18C in its current form. Europe has long had all sorts of laws designed to prevent certain cultural groups from being "upset". They don't seem to be working too well. Also amazing is that certain Muslims such as Uthman Hadar (of "Morality of Honour Killing" notoriety)- openly disparage western free speech notions, yet demand "respect" for themselves. Theo Van Gough died because he "dissed" Islam! Intelligent people, (even politicians!!) should be openly and honestly discussing these issues.
Have a good one.Thanks for the article.
While I am inclined to agree with this author that the proposed increase of powers is probably unnecessary, I can't help wondering how Barnes felt about former AG Roxon's attempt to also "reverse the onus of proof". He refers to reversal of the onus of proof here with outrage. So how does he feel about the general principle? I don't remember him speaking out against Roxon's plans, but maybe I missed it. Possibly the most important thing is to ensure that any proposed laws likely to impinge upon our traditional freedoms at least incorporate a "sunset clause" and/or regular re-evaluation, and not only by the executive government or their delegates.
In my view Kevin Andrews misused this type of law purely for political reasons on a muslim doctor, some years ago.
Have a good one.Thanks for the article.
I am a self-funded retiree. My income is not large but I can live on it. I have always believed in self-sufficiency and so about 25 years ago, I bought a rural block of land where I grow some of my own food. I borrowed most of the money and paid it off. I produce my own power (solar + gennie) also my own water from a spring, dams and rainwater tanks. I installed a mill to pump the water. I also produce my own heating from a slow combustion stove and dispose of my own sewerage via a composting toilet. I received no financial assistance at all from the government for any of the above. I am certainly not complaining about that. It's what I wanted to do. I have several pensioner friends. I have noticed that in some cases the age pension seems to be about enough but in other cases seems quite generous. Not everybody's circumstances are the same. Some people have multiple medical problems. Some own their own homes while others don't. Some get more family support than others. In particular, I have seen two cases where people who have inherited money immediately traded in an 18 month, or two-year old car for the latest model, in order not to have their pension reduced. I have never owned a new car in my life, though I once bought a new motor-bike. I would like to see a fairer system instead of a one-size-fits-all approach. While I think too many depend on welfare, I am also very sympathetic towards those trying to exist on unemployment. (Luckily I've never been a recipient)
Our welfare system needs some tweaking to make it a bit fairer.
I doubt the current government will do it. Nor will those currently on the opposition benches. Meanwhile I will continue with my foolish self-sufficient ambitions. 
Have a good one.Yes comrades, the USA is truly a fascist state. It is obviously a totalitarian regime bent on powerful and continuing nationalism, with a strong emphasis on the cult of the leader....basic human rights are frequently ignored, the media are effectively controlled (and murdered) and there is a classic emphasis on enhancing the power of the military. (especially when the Democrats led by a militaristic, African-American ex-legal academic, are in charge.) Also, there is little if any freedom of speech which is why our Drum, an agent of such fascists, would never accept a post like this!  Dissent is forbidden!

My acknowlegement to Paddy McEvoy who made some of the above points about a month ago, in a letter to Time magazine, referring to Putin's repeated labelling of his enemies as "fascists"!
Have a good one."Why should an employer fund a person's decision to have a child?" Why indeed? 
Some employers might wish to do so as an incentive. Fine with me, as long as they also don't expect me to help fund that scheme.
Have a good one.So tell us Sean, what do you (or they) REALLY get? Say for example, a female public servant earning around $100K/pa who decides she wants to have a child? How much time and how much money? Also tell us how LONG such a person can stay away from work and return with a guaranteed job?
Have a good one.Well said JoAt! I am one of that "significant portion" and I know many people of both sexes who have worked all their lives and would strongly agree with your post. Of course we can expect to hear more from the usual "rusted on" suspects on all sides of the political carnival about "working families" and "working mums and dads". Welfare OUGHT to be directed towards the seriously disadvantaged, not to those who already have a job. Of course there will always be those who do not see parental leave/child care etc. as any sort of welfare at all, but as an "entitlement". (see "stuffed olive's" posts) These social engineers can be found in all of the major parties. Meanwhile, the unemployed are paid a pittance.
Have a good one.Well, I could live with that rf. That seems reasonable. The GREED on both sides of political divide is remarkable.Thanks for the article.
While I am definitely no supporter of Abbott's PPL, I am also opposed to what I view as ongoing middle-class welfare. So I object to my taxes being used to pay some well-off (probably much wealthier than I am) public servant who decides to have a child, just as much as I object to Abbott's scheme. If a private business wants to offer parental benefits that is up to them, and if people want kids, fine. Just don't expect everyone else to pay for them. I don't buy the usual argument that "those children will be taxpayers" so I should subsidise their existence. There are FAR too many people in the world as it is. If we in Oz really need a larger population, there are thousands from less well-off countries who would be happy to come here, work hard, get qualified and pay taxes. As it stands, I am expected by Libs/Labs/Greens to contribute financially towards an ever-expanding population when I think Australia ALREADY has more than enough people. Why can we not have a debate about national sustainable population levels?
Have a good one.From: @ kimcarsons:"Hamas and Fatah now recognise Israel but Israel will never be content until it wipes "Palestine" off the map" !!! ???
Well now!
 There we have it! (The modern totalitarian mentality. Vide George Orwell's "ministry of truth")!  Consider this (2014) quote from deputy chairman of the Hamas political bureau Mousa Mohammed Abu Marzook: "Hamas will not recognise Israel. This is a red line that cannot be crossed." Google it. Check it out.
So.... Marzouk never said this, @kimcarsons?
The following Hamas leaders ALL say that: Any "Islamist Palestine" must be from the Mediteranean sea to the Jordan river (E-W) and from Naqoura to Eliat (N-S). The Hamas charter, which is readily available on the net, defines the Arab-Israeli conflict in religious terms. "The only way to solve the issue is through Jihad or martyrdom"!!! Hamas has the goal of creating an Islamist state replacing Israel,  based upon a type of relgious arpartheid. Examine their views on the Islamist treatment of non-muslims.
Look up their charter or covenant before you dispute this.
Have a good one.Thanks for the article. "You have to wonder about the motives..." I sure do. I can't IMAGINE what this bunch think they are doing. It's truly bizarre. I can think of a number of  ways they could improve the country's finances but this isn't one of them. Why don't they look at gross inequalities in the superannuation/taxation system? I agree that the ever-increasing welfare bill is a worry, but targetting the unemployed is almost certainly counter-productive. Even business is saying so. What about retired politicians suckling on the public teat indefinitely? We could save a few bucks there! Then there is that craaazy attachment to the PPL. WTF? I just don't get it! Even many rusted on libs can't get their heads around that one. True, the goverment has made some progress on the goat people issue and I'm also fine with them not providing a regular shipping news. Unfortunately, that is about the sum of their achievments. This crowd is looking increasingly like a one-termer which means we will then be stuck with the likes of S.H.Y. and B.S.  Truly, we are between a rock and a hard place. My country is in dire peril! Where's John Faulkner when you need him?
Have a good one.Great article Mike Steketee. Thanks. Neither the ALP nor the Libs/NP seem to be interested in superannuation tax reform.
You are spot on about part pensions too. So many australians are firmly attached to the government welfare teat (like tiny, hairless macropods)- it might prove difficult to remove some of them without radical surgery. Politicians, both ALP and the others, are themselves among the worst offenders. I'm buggered if I can see why we should pay for them for their entire lives. Both parties have in the past also foolishly sold off valuable, revenue producing assetts. Your suggestions here are sensible and reasonable, so why do they persist with such mystifying stupidity? 
Have a good one.Thanks for the article.
Mr Green makes some valid points. On the other hand, australian "Anglo Islamophobia" could perhaps be seen as having some plausible connections to reality.
We are seeing australian-born muslims behaving like repulsive violent psychopaths overseas and telling the rest of us us to expect more of the same in Oz, presumably at their hands. While there are local protests if Islam is seen as "dissed", apart from one or two muslim leaders, there seems to be a wide-spread reluctance to criticise fellow muslims. To me, that seems to go some way towards understanding secular Anglo"Fear of Islam".
I would love to see more programs like Jennifer Brockie's recent "Insiders" because in many ways, such shows facilitate enhanced knowledge and genuine tolerance.
Have a good one.Exactly, @M's C. 
Near the end of the movie "Merry Christmas Mr Lawrence" The Lt. col. Lawrence character played by Tom Conti, says to his former jailer, Sgt Hara: 
"We are both victims of people who are absolutely convinced they are right" (or words to this effect) 
He says to Hara, who faces execution next day for war crimes: "If it were up to me, I would let you go back to your home and your family." 
Ignorant hatred and intolerance just breeds more of the same. (I'm a son of a former p.o.w. of the Japanese.)
In your short list, you may have left out the many blinkered clones infesting academia, especially in the Arts and Humanities.
Such individuals were rightly ridiculed by the late Simon Leys (Pierre Ryckmans) for inter alia, their cringing and dishonest worship of chairman Mao.
The rusted on ideological foot-soldiers of both the "right" and "left" often seem to possess a similar rigid, dissembling  and intolerant world-view. 
Have a good one.Well said @PeterB.
I notice, and I hope others also will , that your critic below offers nothing to refute your mostly accurate description of muslim military aggression in Europe. Instead, he or she prefers to quibble about Turkish origins. 
Have a good one.sleepykarly is right. The destructive and infectious European 30 years war of C.1618-1648 clearly involved religion. The civil war just across la manche also had a religious component, as did Mr O. Cromwell's subsequent dictatorial regime. Charles I was decapitated though as far as I am aware, no fanatic's child proudly displayed his severed head. (If Charlie hadn't been so convinced of his own divine righteousness, his head might have remained attached to his torso.)
The "first fleet" to New Holland was only 140 years after the end of the European 30 years war.
Have a good one.Well said Drjohn. Good to see at least one honest medico prepared to speak up for Nitschke on this. An important point which seems to have escaped many of Dr Nitschke's critics is that as a qualified and experienced medical practitioner, he is/was obviously well able to diagnose whether depression was a factor in this case. He said the guy was NOT clinically depressed. It was a carefully considered decision, not an impulsive act. Unlike the usual overpaid experts pontificating in the media who never even met the man who suicided, he wasn't diagnosing by guesswork. If I, or anyone else in their right mind wants to die, for whatever reason, why should some psychiatrist or politician have a right to prevent it? I remain a supporter of Dr Phillip Nitschke. Any such matter should be between a doctor and his or her patient and is NO ONE else's business, unless the patient wants it to be.
Have a good one.Exactly Diogenes. Well said. It is absurd to assume that a person is mentally ill simply because they have made a rational decision not to live any longer. I can think of many situations in which a person may be physically and mentally well but still wants to "exit". It is a matter of civil liberties.
Have a good one.But the person involved was NOT a temporarily upset seventeen year old girl. As a medical practitioner, Nitschke would have the training and experience to determine if the man was mentally ill or not. He said he was not depressed and that it was not an impulsive act but one which the guy had thought about deeply and at length. Why should such a person be obliged to choose some other less effective method which could go wrong, leaving him brain damaged etc.? I do agree with your point about him being a patient, but I myself understood Nitschke's (admittedly ill-considered) words to mean he was not a long-standing patient of his.
Have a good one.Very well put. A clear, coherent and persuasive argument.
(Which just happens to coincide with my own view!)
Have a good one.From what I've read recently and yes, it may be untrue, but I think the US is either a net exporter of energy or will be so very soon. (courtesy of Shale oil) The article described the exporting of some oil from I think, a Texas based company, something the US hasn't done much of since the early '70s.
Have a good one.Wonderful post Tiliqua. We should ALL be grateful to Vlad Putin, but especially those from the Ukraine, who also owe so much to their sadly missed, kindly and generous "Uncle Joe"!
Have a good oneThanks for the article. "Before we debate what to do about inequality..." Maybe we should be clear on exactly what we are talking about? Inequality of opportunity? Inequality of outcome? Maybe some other kind? Recommended reading: "The Son Also Rises" Gregory Clark. Princeton University Press.
Have a good one.Well Julie, so was mine. In Tamarkan. (Bridge on the river Kwai) Maybe they were in the same camp. I don't agree with your view at all but that's OK because we are still free in the Australia both of our Dads fought for, to agree to disagree. For me, It's not a matter of the PM "speaking for me" or not. I simply think his comments are reasonable and also reflect our own government's recognition of Japanese bravery during WW II. Recognising such bravery does not mean ignoring or forgetting the atrocities and terrible suffering for many people caused by Japanese soldiers.
Have a good one.Excellent post @Swan dive. As you point out, the author has been very selective. (I wonder why?) -However, I don't agree with your suggestion the article should be removed, because I believe in free speech no matter how foolish, how transparently rabble-rousing as this one is, or how dishonest.
I do suggest that the author is a partisan player, not unlike some radio commentators.
Have a good one.I don't agree with the author. China was our ally in WW II but it's government has more recently committed appalling crimes against its own people. We should mind our "P's &amp; Q's" so as not to upset them? No, I don't think so. Not only that, but because of its support for a North Korean Orwellian state, China indirectly continues to condone terrible "crimes against humanity'. Japan was responsible for many atrocities against the Chinese 70+ years ago, but is now a very different country. As the son of a POW of the Japanese I am supportive of Abbott's position and statements. I accept that some Chinese people may disagree, but my own father also suffered greatly under the Japanese military as a starved, slave labourer building the death railway. We have to move on, and I think it is rubbish not to acknowledge the bravery of many Japanese soldiers while not at all condoning their acts of brutality. 
Have a good one."Tony Abbott is very loose with facts and truth at times...  Well he's not Robinson Crusoe, and that also applies to the  author of this article! 
"Maybe if his father or grandfather served...during WW2..." 

Mine did serve, and was a POW of the Japanese for three and a half years. I lost an uncle in Europe who was a spitfire pilot. At one point my grandmother had three sons missing, fate unknown. My mother's brother also served in the Pacific theatre as did many of her cousins and some were killed. That was 70 years ago and people need to move on. As far as I am concerned the PM's comments were entirely reasonable. This article is an Allan Jonesian "beat up" (ie., Let's all beat up Abbott instead of minority groups) by a man who has left out key facts and context not fitting his agenda. 
Have a good one.I'm heartened to see some posters here who like myself, also have close relatives who suffered at the hands of the Japanese military, yet understand that we can praise the courage of japanese submariners while condemning atrocities by others in the Imperial forces. Are those who can't do this able to walk and chew gum simultaneously? Perhaps too complicated? The partisan author of this article is not unlike Allan Jones with his selective quotes and ommission of other key facts such as our own, war time government's recognition of Japanese bravery during WW II. Will we see another article here on the Drum on the disgraceful behaviour of wharfies during the same conflict?
This article is little more than a political "beat up", hence my comparison to Jones.
Have a good one.Yes @Kev, such operators make Ned Kelly or Captain Thunderbolt look like saintly philanthropists! The difference is that in most cases, these modern highway men are protected by the law. I sometimes wonder why more fuss hasn't been made, and who among our elected political representatives, has vested interests. Maybe we might get more results from our newest litter of "Indy" senators?
4 Corners should do some digging.
Have a good one.Excellent article. Thank you. I have been saying much the same for years. It is absolutely disgusting that we have this situation, and despite the "rusted ons" from both sides here falling over themselves to point a finger, the ALP as well as various conservative state/federal governments are equally responsible. How ridiculous it is that on the one hand we have politicians worried about the "looming aged care burden" while on the other, so few are willing to support voluntary euthanasia. If others want to end their days in a retirement or nursing home fine, but I have NO intention of handing over my hard earned to this rorting industry. If I have to break the law to get my hands on some nembutal or the like, when I am no longer able to function independently, so be it. What a bizarre and inconsistent species we are! Kevin Andrews is but one of many politicians who has much to answer for.
Have a good one.Thanks for the article.
If those claiming to be on the righteous, caring side were not frequently also those "whose way of interpreting the world is blinkered by a narrow limited agenda", they might be more concerned about all "les miserables" who have drowned. Instead, we have heard the Green's S.H.Y. dismissing a question put to her on those thousand plus drownings with: "Accidents happen"! WHY, if you really are compassionate, would you WANT people arriving in barely sea-worthy boats? Wouldn't it be better to improve assessment processes much closer to point of origin? What about refugees patiently waiting in camps? Could it be that activists who want these unfortunates  to continue arriving in such an obviously dangerous manner, cynically use asylum seekers as political pawns, believing it will help secure their own "narrow, limited agenda"? BTW It was the Keating ALP government which introduced mandatory detention, and it was a desperate, morally bankrupt, "No lurch to the right" Rudd-led ALP which came up with the Manus Island solution. Ultimately, we may all be the victims of those who are "absolutely convinced they are right." (Even if they are of the "left")!
Have a good one.Exactly, Schadenfreud. What I would like to see is some rational discussion and investigation of options which try to be fair to all. If you think about it, any Sunni (or Shiite) from Iraq or Syria, any Hazara from Afghanistan, Any Egyptian who opposes their current military government, any Tamil from Sri Lanka, etc. etc., could plausibly claim to be at risk. Not only that but our system tends to give the benefit of the doubt. Maybe we could trial refugees comprising a greater part of our overall migration intake. Maybe we ALSO should be looking at how many people our scientists estimate our fragile and arid land can sustain and support, especially with climate change factors.
Have a good one.True Esteban. Tokyo as you say, suffered higher initial casualties than Hiroshima; 84,000 vs 78,000, and it was only one of many Japanese cities to be fire-bombed. (Kawasaki, Yokohama, Osaka etc.) Then there was the incendiary bombing of Dresden and Hamburg in Germany, yet the focus is always upon those evil Yankees who unleashed fat man and little boy upon the world.  No (world) wars since, though.
Have a good one.Well said, fellow gaijin! It's 70 years ago. People need to move on.Yes. If you wish for peace, be prepared for war. Unfortunately, many who would probably be the first to scream blue murder if we ever needed to defend ourselves, with our pitifully under-funded armed forces, don't see it that way!
Have a good one.Unfortunately Terangeree, most Australians probably know almost nothing of the Japanese people and their long history of self-imposed isolationism. 
I have always been amazed at how they went from a "medieval" society to an industrial one in about two generations. There is a certain irony too, in how they were forced out of their hermitage existence by the US Navy with commodore Perry's gunboats, only to later bomb Pearl harbour! I think it is reasonable to suggest that comparatively, since WW II, Japan has been an exemplary global citizen.
Have a good one.As the son of a former POW captured at Singapore, I am very pleased to see Japan and Australia taking this approach for our mutual benefit. I have great respect for the Japanese people despite, and even in some ways because of, the behaviour of their military during WW II. 
I hope we can continue to work together in the future. The Japanese are a very impressive people with a fascinating history and culture. In my view there is no reason Japan's military shouldn't perform exactly the same functions as our own army or that of any other democracy, though I accept some Japanese themselves, as well as some other Asians and probably Australians may not feel that way.
Have a good one.If the ABC is balanced and neutral, why was there only ONE brief interview with Aaron Patrick about his book "Downfall" - upon its publication, and not a squeak since? Isn't a well researched description of union corruption and BS's amazing progress through the ALP by somebody well qualified to comment, not worth repeating? Some ABC journalists and producers DO behave professionally. But you have to be quick or you'll miss 'em.
Have a good one.Yes @You've gt2bjoking, I did a small double-take myself when I read that first bit. Anyone who knows much about their own ancestor's experiences might have a slightly different view. The Irish for example, were considered socially inferior by earlier English and Scots. Chinese miners/shopkeepers/market gardeners were only one step above the displaced Murri hunter/gatherers..
Then there were issues of religion and snobbery over convict ancestry (until it became fashionable). Virtually every migrating group such as Greeks Italians, Vietnamese, experienced some degree of ethnocentrism. In most cases they shrugged it off, worked their arses off, exchanged genes and recipes and built the comparatively free and tolerant nation we now enjoy.
I thought Bill's comments above were just "taking the piss"and doubt if he really thinks we should take on 50,000,000 Africans. If we did, we would soon become a very different nation, unable to take anyone at all! That said, compared to most of the rest of the world we are a "multicultural success story". 
Population, the environment including fauna, and sustainability ARE very important issues as many here point out. We can't take everyone no matter how sad their circumstances. The Greens need to think a bit harder about these matters. Their population policy is vague but does mention sustainability. They should be talking real numbers.
Have a good one.Pretty much my own view, Tiliqua. I believe in being kind but compassion must be tempered with common sense.
Have a good one.I agree that Tamils would make good migrants and I also think they are very probably at serious risk if returned. If we didn't have the mess created by a self serving Rudd-led ALP the Tamils should have been accepted here, but that isn't the case. Some might remember Whitlam's comment about the "Balt" Vietnamese, so it is debatable whether the ALP itself has always acted from compassionate rather than political motivations. As far as I can recall it was also the ALP that introduced detention (I may be wrong, please correct me if so).
In my view, Rudd's reversal of the Howard government's approach was not done out of kindness. I believe he simply wanted to capture some of the Green vote. Latham admitted on Q &amp; A some time ago that the previous Lib approach was "better". He is dismissed by the usual ad hominists as a "Rat" but as he pointed out more recently to a "rusted on" on the same program, he has been proved right about quite a lot. Howard's "solution" could have been tweaked, yet Rudd's self-serving stupidity not only contributed to the drowning of over 1,000 people, but his subsequent "Manus island solution" is arguably at least as cruel as the Howard approach. As long as we have people like Plibersek claiming the "only thing we did wrong was be divided" - I won't be voting for a Shorten-led ALP. To learn from your mistakes it is probably a good idea to first acknowledge them.
Have a good one.Good post Sue. there IS water under the ground over much  of outback australia in the great artesian basin, but it varies in quality and the soil above it is generally quite poor. These issues could probably be remedied for a price with current/future technology but the question is, "Should we"? The question for me is "WHY should we support more people?" IF we should, "How many"?  - At the moment we are simply blundering on business as usual, without seriously investigating these issues.
Have a good one.Well put, Ben. I think many australians are fed up with being labelled as racist simply for having a different view to those who advocate what virtually amounts to open borders. Population, the environment and sustainability must also be included in discussions on migration of any kind.
Have a good one.I recently lost a good friend to cancer. He also spent some time in Bonegilla after migrating from Germany in 1961. We often talked about migration issues. I know he would have agreed with everything you say here Peter. Its interesting that so many advocationg for boat people now ignore the comments of yet earlier migrants. I wonder why?
Have a good one.Excellent post Melena S. The author's position is not unlike those who apparently believe that tolerating comments a specific group may find offensive, equates to approving such sentiments. It's really "dumbed down". The parallel is seen in the quote you give in which the author seems unable to grasp that one might feel some pity both for Harris and his victims, while unequivocally condemning his repellent behaviour. Interestingly, this myopic "interpretation" seems more characteristic of those who once championed civil liberties and free speech ie., the political "left"and has worrying similarities to Dubbya's simplistic: "If you're not with us, you're against us!" Why is it that some apparently find it so hard to distinguish between the abhorrent acts Harris has been found guilty of, and his other, more positive deeds? Do they really think that allowing an art work done by Harris to remain in situ  somehow "legitimises" his illegal acts? Perhaps such persons resemble intellectually another former US President, Gerald Ford, of whom it was once (unfairly) said he might find it difficult to "walk and chew gum simultaneously"? There seems to be no place for the balanced middle ground in such shallow, knee-jerk  perspectives, nor any appreciation of the potentially harmful and counter-productive consequences..
Have a good one.That is a really excellent post MTB. All of the points you make do not get nearly enough discussion. Unfortunately, as you say, the minute the historical social context is raised irrational accusations of "Apologist"! by the usual suspects so often follow.
Have a good one.Great post. I admire your fortitude in the face of such serious misfortune and "dips me lid" to you, mate. My best wishes for the future.Yes, there are sure to be some rorters but remember, there are rorters and bludgers in the work force too. Some of them are well paid. If somebody is on the DSP, a medical practitioner made that decision. Shouldn't they also be accountable? I don't disagree with your point which seems to be that those you refer to make it harder for the majority who do have serious disabilities. A bit like crooked politicians or thieving unionists making it harder for the majority who behave honestly.
Have a good one.Good post Mark, and one which comes from experience and contributes to the bigger picture. Just one question. When you say "In my experience many people on the DSP are scammers" how many? what percentage? Might it be the case that at the time you tended to mix with like-minded people making the problem seem perhaps larger than it is? I was also interested in the apparent ease with which you convinced the GP. Ultimately though, wouldn't you have needed to see a government doctor as well at some stage? It may be that busy GPs are very pressured and sometimes not always ideally suited for assessing mental health issues.
Have a good one.Great article. Thank you. I wish there were more like you in this old world Stella. You are right about it being complicated. Mental illness as you rightly say, is not always clearly visible. Many such people, if treated properly with medication and other therapies, can maintain a good degree of control. I know of some people with severe illnesses who have been quite stable for years, (meaning no psychotic episodes), but who remain on the DSP because that's what they have always done and change is scary. They could probably work but it would need to be low stress because of the risk of relapse. On the other hand, I have a friend I knew at school years ago who developed what I believe to be schizophrenia in his early twenties, and was never diagnosed and has never been a recipient of the DSP. He does not think he has an illness. He has never been diagnosed because he is not violent or suicidal. So naturally, never treated either. He eventually completed an Arts degree in the '80s. He tries to get work, but mainly lives on unemployment benefit. He will be 60 in a couple of months. It's a strange and inconsistent system. I accept his choice to live as he does, but it seems odd that centrelink can require him to attend a job interview but not an interview examining his mental state. There are about 800,000 australians on DSP. I am unsure how this figure compares with other countries or if some of these unfortunates serve to keep the unemployment figures low. In any case I expect many are just like yourself and would love a suitable job. 
Have a good one.Would the discussion have been cancelled if his name was Smith? Yes, and with more alacrity and less soul-searching.
Have a good one.Allowing somebody to express a particular view does not equal "recognition", any more than tolerating the expression of a view one disagrees with, equals approval. What IS or should be, "legitimate" is the toleration of the public expression of all views no matter how silly or offensive, including the view (which I do not agree with) that "Recognising them goes some way to legitimising them"!
Have a good one.I heard Mr Badar say a little while ago on ABC radio that he is a victim of hysterical "Islamophobia". Perhaps, but I think it is more likely he has been denied access to the opera house for the same dumbed down reasons that give us "Holocaust denial" or laws which make it an offense to insult, humiliate or offend certain groups. I would probably have very little in common with Mr Badar politically, but I think it is truly stupid to deny him a venue because his views are or may be, offensive or abhorrent. (He says he is against honour killings)
It is remarkable how many can't seem to get their heads around the difference between "tolerance" and "approval". The thinking seems to be: "If you tolerate repellent views you must also be a supporter of them! I noticed this VERY dumbed down "reasoning" if I can dignify such stupidity with the term, when Brandis said we should tolerate bigotry.
There are many more good reasons to allow the public expression of views we dislike or despise, than there are to ban such expression. I am utterly against the entire concept of "Honour killings" which by the way, has never been confined to parts of the muslim world. I despise the lying scoundrels who try to minimise the apalling suffering of the holocaust. I also continue to support REAL free speech, not some inoffensive, censored version of it. Because then it wouldn't be free at all.
Have a good one.I expect that point has ocurred to many people, @reality bites. We should respect free speech no matter how much we dislike its content.
It's why we don't have a law here against "Insulting Islam" or christianity, judaism etc. (Unlike Mr Badar's utopian caliphate.)

Some reasons for NOT trying to limit the public expression of views we don't agree with or find offensive are:

1. Gives support to "conspiracy theorists" eg. "Why are you stopping this from being said? What are you hiding?"

2. Makes martyrs of manipulative rabble rousers (such as Toben or Irving). Especially if they persist and get locked up under such laws.

3. Drives silenced "dissenting" individuals underground to resentfully fester, when it is much better such individuals remain visible and identifiable.

4. Diminishes opportunities whereby refutation can be made of dubious claims and outright lies.

5. Can backfire and be used to silence reasonable criticism.

6. May actually foster social strife rather than the harmony it presumably aims for. Consider the recent murders of Jewish people in Belgium which presumably has long had "holocaust denial" laws.
Have a good one."It is of the most basic civility to respect others. that is the starting point - not free speech".

While I agree we should ALL try to be respectful and civil to one another, I completely reject the view that if what I say is claimed to be offensive, insulting or disrespectful, I should be prevented by the law from saying it. As far as I'm concerned free speech, with the usual limits such as defamation laws and so on, should ALWAYS trump somebody's subjective claim to have been "disrespected". In Mr Hadar's case, it is probable that anything he doesn't agree with, but especially criticisms of Islam, is automatically "disrespectful" !
I hope most people understand why this is an unreasonable, intolerant and ultimately unworkable position for him to take.
Unworkable in a democracy that is.
Have a good one.Exactly, Not Me. Unfortunately the "rusted ons" just don't get it. Neither does Tanya Plibersek who claimed after the ALP lost the last election: "The only thing we did wrong was to be divided".Those who don't learn from their mistakes are likely to repeat them until they do. The ALP's recent review of the last election identified one or two other issues apart from disunity. Shorten's and the same "rusted ons" dismissal of concerns about union corruption is still another reason I will again be voting independent. The ALP should try to grasp that they NEED the support of swinging voters (and ex union members) like me. Shorten's refusal to agree with Howes' view that jail time is appropriate for thieving union officials, as reported in the AFR, is simply disgusting. The Judy Bees will always vote ALP. As Tony Windsor said: "If they already know they will get your vote, why would they bother to earn it?" The "rusted ons" are a large part of the problem.
Have a good one.Regardless of whether he was mentioned or how often, Shorten has turned a blind eye to union corruption. Unlike Howes he was opposed to jail terms for thieving union officials and this was accurately reported in the AFR at the time. Williamson, now jailed, was not only national secretary of the HSU but the NATIONAL PRESIDENT of the ALP. It simply isn't credible that a high-flyer like Shorten had NO IDEA of Williamson's thieving activities even if he didn't know the full extent of it. I doubt if Shorten himself is corrupt. What bothers me as an ex union member, is the way he consistently tries to "minimise" the problem. Faulkner, a decent man like Ian Cambridge, tried to address the issue. They received no help from Bill who waited on the sidelines for his chance at power. Shorten is a ruthless, ambitious and vindictive man with very few scruples, (like Rudd) and the ALP should get rid of him if they can, though now very difficult. There is a very telling account of Shorten's progress within the ALP in Aaron Patrick's book "Downfall". It is not pretty. Patrick is a former member of "Bill Shorten's Young Labor" and he knows what he's talking about.
Have a good one.I doubt the commission will find much actual dirt on Shorten, but I think it is a travesty that the ALP is now led by him rather than by one of the much more impressive and ethical Labor members that have been available. I would like to see him resign but as he is very ambitious I doubt he will. Faulkner would have been a great Labor leader, but I guess he didn't have either the ambition or the numbers like Bill.
Have a good one.Exactly WP. Only a fool would believe the gross social  inequalities in some western nations or the situation in Israel are somehow equivalent to the Orwellian North Korean state. "A jackboot stamping on a human face. Forever."
All things must pass. One day it has to end, but I don't know how. China may be the key.
Have a good one.Exactly Alpo. Well said. Other than perhaps providing some diverting comedy, I don't think our "prancing provocateur" or "rampant rascal" aka Clive, is going to help matters much.
Have a good one."And it can be seen to be corrupt, because Tony Abbott is now paying back the favour"

"Edward Moses Obeid, OAM, was also the most corrupt politician the country has ever seen." (He Who Must Be Obeid ) - by multiple Walkley award winners Kate McClymont and Linton Besser.
The ALP preselection system is "profoundly flawed". 
"Obeid was preselected THREE TIMES by NSW Labor's annual conference". (Senator John Faulkner, reported in SMH 28/07/14)

Commissioner Ipp said that Obeid's web of corruption was so widespread and extensive that the ICAC lacked the resources to investigate it all! (See McClymont and Besser above)
You think Abbott's ABC appointment is corrupt?
Now THATS corrupt! 
-Linton Besser joined ABC's 4 Corners in 2014.
Go ABC!
The truth will set you free.
Even when it hurts.
IF you haven't committed a crime.
And sometimes even when you have.
Have a good one.
Marco Bolano, outside the court following Craig Thomson's conviction: "It's a protection racket .... symptomatic of the union movement .... it's not all of it, but it's not just one or two bad apples."
 
John Faulkner has described the ALP preselection process as "deeply flawed", referring to Obeid's triple preselection by NSW Labor's annual conference.

I am not a member of any party, but I have lately become interested in Leyonhjelm's Lib/Dems. I also think our best chance to improve matters may be to support Independents such as Xenophon or Wilkie. It's unfortunate that Windsor and Oakeshot didn't stick around.
Have a good one.Thank you professor Twomey. Well put. This article seems to mainly focus on election funding corruption which we are now seeing exposed in the Liberal party. 
The ALP corruption (so far) uncovered differs slightly, in that not only have we seen abuse of union member's money by the likes of Thomson for election purposes, but also several examples of pure self interested GREED, exemplified by Macdonald, former ALP National president Williamson, a certain former CFMEU official, and most extremely by "puppet master" Obeid. 
Numerous ALP state and federal politicians, eg. Burke, Conroy and Robertson, stayed at his expensive Perisher lodge (rent $7,500/week in peak periods) and have thumbed their noses at the parliamentary rules, the justice system and their constituents. 
Obeid himself has likewise given us all the rasberry, rating his chances of being convicted at around 1%! The greatest damage however, has been done to many people's belief in democracy. Melinda Pavey a NSW NP senator, openly warned of this threat by Obeid as long ago as 2006 and again in 2011.

His influence also potentially extended federally, seen in ALP "mole" and Obeid mate Richard Torbay's aborted tilt at New England. (Polls at the time favoured him over Windsor.)

What we have heard time and again, from both those actually convicted as well as those "exonerated", such as former AMWU leader Doug Cameron is: "I've done nothing wrong." Not being convicted does NOT mean you have "done nothing wrong". John Faulkner, who in my view is one of the few politicians deserving trust and respect, understands this. 
The values of all those who sat and watched him and others such as McClelland and Cambridge, try to address ALP union corruption should be obvious.

I agree that harsher penalties would probably help  (Shorten doesn't when it comes to union officials though: AFR 8/7/13), but I also think that we the people, especially all the "rusted ons" perpetuate the threat by blindly voting for "our" party, whchever one it is.
Have a good one.

Some years ago now, a prominent Painters &amp; Dockers figure was gunned down on a Melbourne wharf. Despite the fact there were dozens of potential witnesses milling about, police could get no witness statements. An improbable number claimed to be in the small toilet nearby. These days such violence is less open, though some still describe threats of retaliation. I can understand why any wharfie at that time might think twice before talking. However, police still encounter a "code of silence" when investigating union behaviour, just as they do with other criminals. 
The claim is: It's the bosses/media/political conservatives etc. "persecuting" us unfairly. An "us &amp; them" perspective.
BHP/Rupert Murdoch/Tony Abbott - snatching the bread from the bleeding mouths of the starving CFMEU/MUA members.
Comments made here on the Drum sometimes reflect this type of thinkng. So, Bill Shorten can get away with claiming that simply bringing penalties for union officials who steal from members into line with existing penalties for corporate crims is "union bashing". Not only is this claim ridiculous, many seem not to grasp that it is union MEMBERS who the ones being disadvantaged by such absurd rhetoric. Unions have achieved much for Australian workers over more than a century. That does NOT mean members should be expected to put up with the scenario Marco Bolano described in front of the court after Thomson's sentencing.
Have a good one.@Chipinga. "Not heard a peep..." Exactly.
"He (Shorten) will not countenance criticism of the government response to the global financial crisis or the blowout in government spending." 
- From Troy Bramston's "Rudd, Gillard and Beyond".
Bramston also claims (Like Plibersek) that "Disunity, including the brutal removal of two prime ministers from office, was the overriding cause of Labor's defeat." However, unlike  Plibo, Bramston does at least seem to grasp Labor could have one or two other little problems, as well as those "brutal removals" Bill just might have had a teeny, weeny part in.
Labor could have asked someone honest, such as the widely respected John Faulkner to lead the ALP.
Instead they chose one more highly ambitious, dodgy ex union official, a louche lawyer who thinks putting in place real penalties for union leaders who steal from members is "union bashing"!
Odd, that Paul Howes the national secretary of the AWU didn't quite see it that way. He's been told to pull his head in... Omerta.
Have a good one.Good article.
I think Julie Bishop is one of the more impressive politicians of the current crop (from all parties.)
Christine Milne is also smarter than people give her credit for, but sometimes gets too moralistic and worked up.
Bishop is intelligent, calm, articulate and occasionally witty. Not too long ago, she gently but amusingly commented on the irony of a female ABC interviewer questioning why the government wasn't getting involved more quickly overseas. (IS)
She's a better minister than Rudd/Carr ever were.
She seems to be across all the important issues and is  better suited to deal with the likes of Putin than Abbott is.
I also think her views as described above, probably reflect widely held, main stream views of both men and women.
I would be happy to see her as our PM.
Have a good one.As Noel Pearson attested, this old man didn't have a bone of racial/ethnic prejudice...in his body.
Some here are probably unaware of Clyde Cameron's memoir Mungo, but I doubt if you are, or Noel Pearson for that matter.
As Saigon was about to fall, Don Willessee the foreign minister, went with the Minister for Labour and Immigration, Clyde Cameron, to ask Gough to help get some of the thousands of desperate South Vietnamese out.
Gough was totally unsympathetic.
I've tried unsuccessfully to enter the relevant quote here before. Maybe this time it will get past apparently immoderate moderators.
"Finally Whitlam stuck out his jaw and thundered: I'm not havng hundreds of (expletives deleted) "Balts" coming here with their religious and political hatreds against us!"
I think this may in fact show a less pleasant side to Gough amid all the hagiography currently on display, as well as say something about their own "political hatreds" of those who prefer to tiptoe away from this unseemly episode.
Cameron strongly supported Gough's stance  by the way.
Have a good one.
I could ride alone at four years.
Sometimes I spent all day on horseback when I was young.
 
I hate to see such beautiful creatures die unnecessarily.
Humans seem to think we are the apex of our planet's life.
Many believe we can do as we please with other creatures.

"The animal shall not be measured by man. In a world older and more complete than ours they move finished and complete, gifted with the senses we have lost or never attained, living by voices we shall never hear.

They are not brethren or underlings; they are other nations, caught with ourselves in the net of life and time, fellow prisoners of the splendour and travail of the earth."
Henry Beston.
Have a good one.It doesn't seem to have occurred to the warmists themselves, but I long ago came to the conclusion they are partly responsible for much of the criticism they experience.
"My" ABC has earnestly played its part there as well.
 
I myself accept the basic theory of climate change, though I remain sceptical about claims of "95% certainty" and the like.
-The effects could be less or more severe than "projected". 

WHY warmists feel they must rush to suppress or attack heretical questioners, (As so amusingly described by Garth Paltridge in "The Climate Caper") - I don't know.
I think it is definitely a counter-productive strategy.

In behaving like a collection of Herge characters, beating a drum and wearing a placard, it is no wonder many otherwise reasonable people find them so irritating!
-Flannery's claim that 1 metre/ century sea level rise is "geologically unprecedented" is one recent example.  Garnault's assertion that: "China is doing its bit" is another.

Surely it would be better to allow the occasional "heretic" such as Paltridge, to have his say? The ABC may find such a prospect annoying, but no more than I find their bizarre and silly censorship of such "misguided miscreants". 
Have a good one.Thanks for the article 
The vast majority of the "carbon" which will be emitted in future will be from developing nations, especially China, which is already responsible for 28% of all global emissions.
60% of the growth in global emissions since 2002 came from China. The USA is responsible for the bulk of emissions historically ie since the industrial era began, but China is rapidly catching up there too, and will soon overtake the USA in historical emissions. 
China is the world's largest producer of solar and wind power, but it is also building about two 500MW coal-fired power stations every three weeks.
The above means that Oz on its own, has roughly zero ability to control climate change. It doesn't mean we should do nothing, but maybe we should also focus more attention on dealing efficiently with the inevitable climate effects we will face here in the future.
We are already a land of weather extremes, so if we are smart we should start planning for more destructive episodes of those extremes, such as fires, floods, droughts, heatwaves, water shortages and so on.

Have a good one.I don't think the debate is "bizarre", nor is it only "animal rights groups" who are concerned about the cruelty to animals. 
There are also plenty of farmers who were upset and disgusted by what they saw on the 4 Corners program.

As for the view that "other countries don't have our values and will fill the gap", It's illogical. Simply because some one else behaves callously or cruelly, doesn't justify similar behaviour in Oz.

Most people in urbanised Oz are insulated from the suffering inflicted upon animals. Some farmers, especially those who don't want to change their practices, would like to preserve that ignorance which is why they support "Ag-Gag" laws. 

Those who think cruelty to animals is unimportant maybe need to see more of it and think a bit harder. Intelligent primary producers are paying attention and slowly changing out-dated, cruel practices.

Have a good one.Thanks for a balanced article Clive Phillips.
I think it's good that animal welfare issues and live animal exports are back in the public arena.

I hope we never lose sight of the unnecessary suffering involved in the industry.
It was only when large numbers of the public became aware of the realities of the export industry that outfits such as the MLA realised it had to start doing the job it was paid to.
 
I'm opposed to live exports because I think the voyage itself is very hard on animals, and also because the risks are too great, (such as the boat with thousands of sheep which caught fire some years ago.) I also think that no matter what we may intend, once the animals are in another country we will have limited ability to protect them from further cruelty.
I would like to see live exports gradually phased out altogether. Graziers who claim they can't afford local transport will need to consider alternative arrangements.
 
As far as I remember, a WA kimberly operator and owner of several cattle stations, was reportedly intending to build his own slaughter house not too long ago. If he can do it, so can others, perhaps collectively.
 
I am also of the opinion we don't need anything like the amount of protein in our diet some claim. There is a local christian religion whose members don't eat meat, and who's generally good health seems to support my view.

In any case, I am an ex-grazier who strongly believes we must take the suffering of animals seriously and act accordingly. Pursuit of profit shouldn't trump unnecessary cruelty, as it does at present.
Have a good one.
Great points Sue Head.
I think the ALP's decision to shut down the export industry entirely was in hindsight unfortunate, because it has allowed the graziers to become the "victims" as this article alleges.
It would have probably been better to try to limit exports only to those facilities which could show they were not the problem.
I grew up on a sheep and cattle station. I know that graziers are usually hard working, multi-skilled people with lots of intiative who love the autonomy of working for themselves. I also know that while most are not deliberately cruel, animal suffering is not a particularly high priority unless the survival of the animal is at stake.

Naturally, such people will fight to defend their livelihood. However I also think that not many "consumers" in countries such as ours, or the USA, UK etc. would eat much meat if they had to kill and butcher it themselves. (As I have done many times)  
I oppose live export because I think it is unnecessarily cruel, including the voyage not just the slaughtering afterwards. It is all really about money as the article suggests. 
I know I am not the only ex-grazier who opposes live exports.
Nick Xenophon is someone I strongly support on this issue.
Have a good one Sue, and thanks for speaking up on behalf of those who can't do so for themselves!I don't think it's quite that simple Mark, though I do share your low opinion of the ALP these days. I am an ex-grazier, (140 yr old family business) and also an ex-union member. I do care about "farmers" and also graziers, some of whom are my family members. And I also care about the unnecessary suffering of animals, human ones included!
The world is very complicated sometimes.
Have a good one.You've hit the nail on the head there, Martin Holmes!
At the time and for well afterwards, I heard plenty of irrate farmers and graziers making scathing remarks about MLA.
 
Animals Australia, the RSPCA and 4 Corners have repeatedly done what MLA were supposed to be doing.

I also heard some local farmers saying openly that they were opposed to live export for a variety of reasons, some of them mentioned here. Why not "process" stock here in Oz?

Finally, on the claimed suffering of the businesses affected,
if they were operating so close to the bone they couldn't weather the relatively short-lived export ban, I wonder how long they would have lasted anyway. I'm a bit sceptical.

Costs have gone up and prices have gone down, and yet some owner/operators including relatively small ones, not only survive but do pretty well. I know some of them.

Have a good one.Well said EMH. I think many rural people I have known would share your perspective, especially small business owners. I can't think of any members of my immediate family who would disagree. Yet the handout mentality continues to be nurtured by both of the main political parties.
On my mother's side of the family I have an ancestor who arrived in Oz with virtually nothing, and despite fires and floods, and many other calamities, became an extremely successful (urban) business owner, employing many others, with no government assistance whatsoever. His confident belief in himself and his considerable abilities was amazing, as was his Irish sense of humour!
Have a good one.Thanks for the article.
We may or may not be lagging behind Indonesia in so-called gender equality but in NSW at least, we are rapidly catching up in the corruption stakes. 
On the other hand Malaysia, another country with lots of muslims, is still persecuting political foes on trumped charges of sodomy. 
In NSW old convictions of homosexuality are to be erased.

As far as politics in Oz go, I am not a supporter of quotas. 
There are far too many women with an authoritarian mindset in parliament as it is.
The current speaker, the deputy leader of the opposition, the two main leaders in the Greens as well as Lee Rhiannon are just a few who have little true respect for civil liberties or free speech. All of them favour more government intrusions into our lives, it just varies as to how or where.

 Even the female ALP MP who recently criticised the current proposed security laws would almost certainly exhibit plenty of oppressive tendencies of her own given half a chance!

In short it is not their sex, but their behaviour concerning  freedoms some like David Leyonhelm consistently defend which count for me.
Have a good one.Exactly, Haderak. If anything, I think the Greens attract even more "Stasiland" authoritarians than either the Libs or the ALP! I have voted for them (once) in the past because they are the only party to take animal welfare seriously, but I have lately come to believe I would be better off to vote independent or LDP. 
What I like about senator Leyonhelm is his consistency.
Members of the other big parties are very quick to squeal about "rights" in areas relating to their various agendas, but seem to have a convenient blind spot or two when it comes to genuine tolerance of opposing views.
Have a good one.Getting back to restrictive laws such as those the senator is criticising, I think it is far better to avoid simplistic kneejerk legal responses and instead to foster ongoing education and discussion. The grieving muslim father I saw interviewed on "7.30" a few months ago, or the one on "Insight" trying to understand why his son was becoming radicalised, are MUCH better than any laws allowing police to kick down your door, or the "offended" to prescribe what can be said.
It may also be more convincing and effective to hear from such "ordinary muslim australians" than from the imams because many of us have become deeply sceptical about "leaders" but can recognise our common humanity with "Mo Blow".

I'm not saying the opinions of the imams aren't helpful. They are both helpful and welcome. I am just saying that the discussion of these matters should continue and we should try to avoid stupid politico/legal"solutions.".
Have a good one."...genuine calssical liberals who abhor the dea of an overly powerful state."
That's my view as well.
After listening to the senator being interviewed on commercial radio and reading the senator's last two Drum articles, I am seriously thinking of putting my money where my mind is and donating!
I've never donated to a political party before, except when I was in the union and some of my money went to the ALP whether I wanted it to or not.
Have a good one.Thanks Senator, for once more speaking up for the freedoms too many who are elected are so willing to give away, including "Me too" small target Shorten.
The government already has more than enough legal power.
 
On point  6., the RDA18C similarly wasn't scrutinised. There are already so many laws available, not limited to defamation.
Most of the commentary was dishonestly dumbed down, especially on "my" local ABC radio, without honest appraisal of other approaches including  public discussion,  those who feel they have been offended could take.
 
Interesting too, how many who complain of other intrusions such as internet restrictions or monitoring, and these grossly oppressive "security" laws you are rightly criticising, accept the unnecessary censorship of RDA18C.

My main criticism of laws like RDA18C is that they are probably not only unnecessary but counterproductive.

That is yet another area which was ignored with RDA18C and may also apply to these security laws.

At least we still have you and some of the more intelligent and honest independents to vote for, next time.
Voting for the Greens (which I mistakenly did last year) will simply deliver more of the same brainless, intolerant, ideological authoritarians.
Have a good one.Another good article. Thanks Paula Matthewson. On media focus upon "how things are rather than they should be.." - I think there was insufficient examination by media of the relevant facts relating to the government's aborted attempt to alter the RDA 18C. 
Some ABC employees played their part, dumbing down an already obtuse and dishonest conversation so it was pretty much reduced to: "Offending others on racial grounds is wrong therefore it should be illegal, and if you don't agree you must condone such offensive behaviour."

There was virtually no proof that the Act actually achieved its claimed ends, (Think Cronulla riots) and even worse, almost no effort to examine whether such laws as the RDA or the Victorian RRTA 2001 may even be counterproductive in several important ways, as WA adjunct Law professor Augusto Zimmerman suggested in: "The intolerance of Religious Tolerance Laws."


There was almost no examination of alternatives eg., the plethora of already existing laws such as those that that abusive woman on the train was charged under or of the defamation laws Bolt could have faced, and how the latter laws might be made fairer. (Ian Callinan : "Why We Don't Need A News Media Council)

Where was the media examination of the involvement of the Islamic Council of Victoria in creating the RRTA 2001 which excludes truth as a defence although we allow it in defamation? 
Where is the media focus upon the cynical attempts by politicians to gain the votes of a section of the electorate, while paying lip service to essential components of democracy such as free speech?
The aboriginal writer Kerryn Pholi in: "Mona and The Rich Old White Males", has described RDA18C as a stupid and patronising law. I agree, but think it is worse than this, being probably counterproductive and potentially dangerous.
Have a good one."I'm glad that Morrison and Abbott are Christians..."
Evelyn Waugh may fall into a similar category. 
When a friend rebuked him for his sarcastic and uncharitable behaviour whilst simultaneously professing to be a Christian, an unrepentant Waugh apparently replied: 
"Yes, but if I wasn't, I'd be much worse!"
Have a good one.Good points Ronk.
We are a lot less oil self-sufficient these days, which apart from other reasons might be a good argument for encouraging more renewable energy of all kinds and at all levels.
How long would we last if supplies were suddenly cut off?
Have a good one.Like PFD, pactra and bibi, I didn't think Pistorius's story was convincing. I think he knew it was Reeva behind that door. I do suspect he acted impulsively and later probably genuinely regretted his actions, not only for his own sake.

I grew up with firearms and used them from an early age.
Putting myself in a similar situation to the one Oscar claimed he thought he was in, (burglary/home invasion in SA) I would have armed myself and then called out to my girlfriend to establish her whereabouts. 

I also would not have fired into any closed or locked toilet, (or other) door even once, let alone many times. The bullets could fly all over the place and hit anyone, including me.

That said, I thought that the author's comments here on gender expectations and disability were a bit of a "long bow". 

"Perhaps others in the prison will see if he actually does sound like a woman when he screams."
Interesting comment, bibi. Reminds me of a psychology lecturer I had years ago who liked to use an educational technique of pretending to be a person interested in animal welfare, demanding all sorts of hideous punishments for abusers of animals. Quite amusing to listen to and I have never forgotten it!
(BTW I am an animal lover and activist myself, but not a sadist. I hate cruelty to any animals including human ones.)

Have a good one.Fair enough, JamesD. 
I agree with you, despite my earlier comment which probably should have been prefaced with "Based upon the limited information I have seen and heard."

I don't think Judge Masipa was at all incompetent or biased.
In fact I too thought she behaved very professionally. She is required to work within the limits of the SA legal system regardless of her private thoughts or feelings.

I agree that some australian judges might benefit from the example of her balance and professionalism. 
Have a good one."The misguided belief that there exists a right to not be offended has spread like a virus."  I'm glad to hear Ben at least express scepticism about this absurd claim which supporters of RDA 18C so loudly defend.
"The above trend is not distributed uniformly across the political spectrum." Exactly F.G. 
Richard King has written much on this issue that is worth considering. Like Orwell, he seems to lean consistently to the left but he is fortunately of the "old school". These days persons wrongly described as "progressives" leap at every chance to silence dissent. They apparently believe a claim to be offended is an argument in itself.
I wonder what the aboriginal writer and former government employee Kerryn Pholi would have to say on the "Spurr" case?
Have a good one."Its right next to 18C, its called 18D...its just good law."

Why should comedians, artists of various kinds, academics or other "privileged" persons be given free speech protections I, or other less august members of the public are not? 
RDA 18C is not  "good law". Saying so doesn't make it true. Tacking on 18D does not make it so. It is overly restrictive. It goes beyond what is "balanced" or reasonable. It was created for political purposes, just like the even worse Victorian RRTA 2001.

"Intimidation" should be retained within the RDA, but "offending, insulting, humiliating" should be removed.

It is claimed that 18C  encourages "harmony" within the community. Where is the evidence for this claim?

 I think that there are many more good arguments for  revising RDA18C than there are to leave it as it is.
I've described some of them here before.
Have a good one."Racism takes many forms..." Very true. 
As someone who remembers the treatment of aboriginal people in early 1960's outback australia, I can think of numerous examples.

Real tolerance takes time to emerge, and I think some laws such as  RDA 18C not only fail to achieve their claimed objectives but very likely work against them.

The W.A. legal academic Augusto Zimmerman has suggested this in his essay: "The Intolerance of Religious Tolerance Laws."

That a claim of being "offended" for whatever reason, should be where further discussion flows and not where it stops, seems obvious to me.

RDA 18C is not only probably counterproductive but also unnecessary, since Bolt could have been taken to court for defamation as aboriginal writer Kerryn Pholi wrote recently in "Mona (Eltahawy) and the Rich Old White Males."
 
That it might have been more difficult for Eatock and others to win the case is not an argument for retaining 18C but rather one for access to better funding for the less powerful in defamation cases,  as Ian Callinan suggested about two years ago.

Have a good one.Great article! Also some very insightful comments such as "Damon's" which transcend the rather dumbed down views we often hear on such matters, eg., of the "I don't like what he said, therefore it's quite OK to publish a private conversation" variety. 
Ends almost always justify means for those who are absolutely convinced they are right!
(Naturally that's never the case if one's "opponents" take this as permission to respond accordingly.)

When I first heard the reports on ABC radio, the initial description used was "Professor Spurr's private email" but this soon changed over the morning, with the word "private" being dropped.
My own thoughts were similar to "Sandra's" above, as I also wondered just what intrusions are now socially sanctioned, what the connection was with Spurr's role in the revising of the curriculum, what part the university's other employees had played, whether New Matilda had behaved illegally, and most of all, what prof. Spurr's response would be. 
I am glad to hear he is taking legal action. I hope he wins, but even if he doesn't perhaps the case will clarify some important questions for those of us who still value privacy, freedom of expression (even if we disagree with its content) and other old-fashioned notions!
Have a good one.Thank you Tim, for an intelligent and open-minded article on this issue. It is interesting how many people of both genders seem inclined to stigmatise and ridicule TGs who have sometimes  been described as representing "The Last Sexual Taboo".. 
I've noticed that women and especially women over "a certain age", are even more intolerant on this issue than the men they so often complain about on other gender-related matters!

Have a good one!Great to hear your views Rodney Cavalier.
Like him, loathe him, or remember him with mixed emotions as I do, Gough was a leader of rare intellect, vision and eloquence, who worked very hard for our country and deserves our respect. 
My own favourite anecdote is one I heard on Richard Fidler's "Conversations" a few months ago. It concerned a talented woman who had at one time worked in the parliamentary bar. During a busy period when supply exceeded political demand for liquid refreshments, said harassed bar attendant was urged to first serve the PM (Gough) who was also thirsty. She responded: "The PM can wait his turn like everyone else."
Gough overheard her and immediately cried out: "Well said comrade"!
I love that story, as it represents for me a healthy national aversion for touching the forelock to any allegedly superior class or hierarchy.
Clyde Cameron's account in his memoir: "China, Communism &amp; Coca-Cola", of Gough's contrastingly churlish behaviour towards Vietnamese refugees as Saigon fell is rather less hagiographic, yet my initial remarks here remain no less true.

Thank you for the article, I especially liked your reference to the 1967 ballot. I too, have little time for ALP "cabals" and their machinations while I nevertheless respect the party's achievements. 
Have a good one.True Rob. I was among those who earned a commonwealth scholarship to uni. On "Get Real's" comments above, I think Rudd was in power for a total of about 2 years and 9 months, while Gillard was PM for just over three years. Rudd was disappointing to put it charitably, because while sharing with Gough a rare opportunity for the party to be led by a refreshing alternative to a current unimpressive crop of union officials and staffers, as well as Gough's high self-regard, he had little of the latter's impressive intellect, communication skills, or self-deprecating sense of humour.
Have a good one.I wasn't criticising you Get Real, simply responding to a perhaps mistaken understanding on my part of your post that Rudd had more time than Whitlam. I am not a "rusted on" supporter of any party and usually vote for Independents. My apologies if my interpretation was wrong.
 
Have a good one.Thanks for the article.
 I have never even seen a niquab or burqua worn in Oz, but I live in a rural area. I do see an occasional, often quaintly attractive, hijab. The impressive Ayaan Hirsi Ali is quite right. If anyone is well qualified to comment on such matters she is. The stupidity of singling out perectly innocent muslim australians was always likely to backfire. The government's handling of this issue reminds me of Kevin Andrew's similarly unfair and brainless treatment of Dr. Haneef. 
To me and probably to Hirsi Ali, the culturally based wearing of burquas and niquabs is emblematic of the sexist views of those who favour it, but it is grossly inappropriate to try banning it. 
Instead, education is the answer, including the words and behaviour of such courageous and intelligent women as Ayaan Hirsi Ali and the amazing Malala Yousafzai, who herself wears a hijab in public.
I do not support authoritarian interventions like this rightly foiled attack on the burqua for the same reasons I would like to see 18C of the RDA revised. I believe in personal freedoms unless others are directly and physically threatened. (And even in those cases, I think we should proceed with caution rather than rush to judgement)
Have a good one.Thank you Sophie Cousins. I am impressed with your idealistic initiative and compassion. PTSD is an interesting disorder. I have had two close relatives who both experienced significant trauma but as far as I know, didn't go on to develop PTSD.
My brother was a Viet Nam vet, a "nasho", while my father survived the notorious Burma-Siam "death railway". I think that while PTSD can theoretically affect any of us, there are probably personality traits which might make one person more vulnerable than another. Considering some of the events he later described to us, eg. appallingly sadistic torture and public decapitations, my father never showed any of the DSM signs nor described any symptoms of PTSD. He was a very "centred" man, almost "autistic" in some ways (not clinically). To me, it seemed that the events he witnessed were simply unpleasant things that had happened to him but about which he was more pleased to have survived than bitter/angry/sad about. I often hear of people whose fathers refused to buy Japanese products. My father was not like that and I clearly remember his decision to get rid of the U.S.-made utes we had, because he was fed up with the unreliability. He bought Japanese 4WDs instead. 
Maybe a practical approach helps. Necessity is the mother of invention so it's said. A final point is that I was initially sceptical not about PTSD, but about the emergence of symptoms years later. Due to my own experiences which I will not describe here, I am no longer as sceptical.
Have a good one.Although the article accuses Abbott of creating a distraction from the important topics which will be addressed at the G20, it seems to me that the ABC has created something of an overblown distraction itself in this matter. Not being a footie fan, I had never heard of the term "shirt front"until recently. If asked what it meant, I would have guessed it was a modern version of to "button hole", meaning to accost and detain an unwilling listener. Looking up "shirt front" I find it means to vigorously/fiercely tackle an AFL opponent. I guess both terms involve confronting another, the second more assertively. I doubt anybody except the very ignorant would believe Abbott ever intended physical assault. In my view the issue is a childish distraction from more important matters and Mr Cassidy is contributing to that distraction in an effort to portray the PM as bungling, crass and inept, behaviours neither the PM (nor Cassidy himself) apparently need much assistance with. 
Have a good one.
I get the "news" from a variety of sources, mostly from the ABC but also from the Fairfax and Murdoch media and occasionally from the Guardian. Probably 90% of the reporting and commentary I choose to listen to comes from SBS and the ABC. I don't see the ABC as unbiased, anymore than the Murdoch press or Fairfax. Bias can be subtle or flagrant, and I believe that the public funded media employs many who, while assessing their own contributions as balanced and even handed don't seem so to me. If anything, compared to Fairfax or Murdoch media, I think the ABC is often shallower, more "dumbed down" and much more "politically correct". So as a listener/viewer I take that into account. I still like to listen to the ABC/SBS because there are aspects of it which are genuinely "professional". Richard Fidler's ABC show for instance, or Jenny Brockie's Insight, are both intelligent, genuinely interesting and fairly presented programs. Unfortunately, many within the public funded media do not attain the high standards of the above nor even probably grasp what makes these shows so impressive. The University of the Sunshine Coast polling of journo voting intentions is also revealing. What makes a true professional however, is not his/her political allegiances but the ability to honestly put them aside. I wonder just how much the author of this article really understands this.
Have a good one.True Horrocks, and according to the report I heard on  ABC radio the Judge also made the point that granting residency to the infant would very likely increase the likelihood of even more pregnant asylum seekers attempting the same thing.
What I have noticed about many refugee "advocates" is their uncompromising insistence that people MUST arrive by boat. Why? Many of those who wanted to see the numbers of boat people arriving here drastically reduced were fine with humanitarian numbers actually being increased. They were NOT opposing our humanitarian intake, just the method. Why the intractable insistence on self-selecting arrivals often with no I.D? Why don't these advocates focus instead on more efficient assessment at or closer to, point of origin?
As for "australian identity" my view is the same as Kevin's, above. My own ancestors arrived in the 1840's and 1850's.
Have a good one.Exactly Coogera. I remember a high-up member of our secret squirrels making exactly the same point a couple of years ago. 
Your second point is also a good one, even though the term "australian values" would reasonably be questioned by some.
I would have liked to hear Uthman Badir talking at the Festival of Ridiculous Ideas, about "the morality of honour killings", so as to better understand his peculiar motives.
Have a good one.Thank you David Leyonhjelm! It is great to hear some rare common sense from a politician instead of the usual dumbed down rhetoric we get from Labor, the LNP and the Greens. Like you, I realise that 18C in its current form is not only excessively restrictive, but is very likely to be counter-productive. Those authoritarian "progressives" who resist changing 18C unfortunately don't seem able to grasp this. They are also inacapable of understanding that free speech isn't free at all unless it includes a right to offend and a similar acceptance of being offended. As Richard King has said, "Claims of being offended should be where the discussion starts, not where it must stop." The Victorian RRTA is even worse than 18C RDA, not even allowing truth to be used as a defence as it is with defamation cases. There was an (unintentionally) amusing editorial in the SMH recently, which claimed that while we should accept that free speech may sometimes offend us, we should nevertheless be protected from "mental hurt"! I also fully support your comments on Islamist speech. Speech should NOT be limited unless there is clear and unambiguous incitement of violence against others.
The ABC meanwhile, has been "doing its bit" assisting the dumbing down of discussion on free speech. I have heard two different announcers claim that "George Brandis said it's alright to be a bigot!" In fact, he said that people "have a right to be a bigot" which is quite different, but as I mentioned earlier, the distinction is possibly beyond said announcers' mental abilities.
Have a good one.

Well said Zing. I remember a line from a long-forgotten '60s high school history text: "...from the fury of the Northmen, lord deliver us!". 
What many of the "progressives" don't seem to grasp is that a majority of australians, themselves migrants or the children of migrants, do NOT support an "open borders" approach to refugees. I would be happy to see our humanitarian intake numbers increased, perhaps even doubled. I don't think boat people are terrorists or otherwise "undesirable". In fact, those with the initiative and resources to arrive by boat might even turn out to be "assets" to the nation. The problem I have with their self-selection however, is not their impressive initiative, but that they are placing themselves ahead of others with less resources when it ought to be our elected government making these decisions. I realise that this view will annoy some, but I do think it is perfectly reasonable that "we" (ie our elected government) "determine who comes here and the manner in which they do." What about refugees in camps and much worse circumstances? Should they denied a place here because others were more resourceful? If we have a set number of "humanitarian intakes" isn't that what will happen? If our navy was ordered to escort boats safely from Sri Lanka and Indonesia, wouldn't numbers arriving that way increase? We could also set up "rapid assessment centres" near some camps and then similarly provide safe passage, but if so our current quotas would quickly be filled.
Have a good one.Troy, your sentiments are similar to those expressed in the past by Clive James who has also noted a strong intolerant and rather blinkered authoritarian streak in certain allegedly "progressive" academics and intellectuals.
I don't think this issue is "black &amp; white" and I agree with the authors on at least one point; that our approach needs further consideration. However your point is a valid one.
I disagree on the other hand, with the view that the ABC should try to represent the "90%". In fact, its employees should strive to be impartial and do the opposite, giving air time to a wide variety of views, on which they sometimes fail! (But they are definitely better than the commercial alternative)
Have a good one.
Sometimes a government moves against the majority public opinion and sometimes it doesn't. In the case of the latter, depending on the strength of people's feelings about the issue, it gets voted out. (The abolishing of the death penalty is probably a relevant example of how the views of the population can change). If Rudd's roll back of the so called "pacific solution" - offshore processing etc. had worked really well, he would not have desperately changed it back to an even harsher version. His initial, ill-considered and cynical decision was a disaster and despite all the lies by the ALP at the time about "push factors", it was the "sugar on the table" that SBY referred to. Neither of the two biggest parties is therefore going back to a discredited Rudd approach and people should accept that. However, the current approach COULD perhaps be (very carefully) "tweaked" a bit to make it a little more humane, now things have settled down. 
Have a good one.
