Western military intervention??? Your ideas are incredibly dangerous and irresponsible. This would confirm all of Russia's fears concerning the threat posed to it by the West and escalate the situation even further. Here we are decrying Russia's interference in Ukraine, and you suggest this? My father and his family fled Russia in 1917, so I have every reason to distrust the Bolsheviks, but I also understand their fear of the West. America was "nervous" when Russia installed nuclear missiles in Cuba. The Russians are exhibiting the same "nervousness" as they see Western powers edging toward their borders. Western military intervention? You're just plain nuts!!rb: If you seek a better solution, you have only to read the above article, focussing on the solution created when Fraser was our PM: "Australia joined the US, China and Canada to reach an agreement under which each country took substantial numbers of Vietnamese and Vietnam agreed to stop pushing people out of the country. Australian officials, together with those from other countries, processed people in camps in Malaysia and other south-east Asian countries and flew the successful applicants to Australia."
How about a similar international cooperation? Don't let them get on the boats that you obviously detest: send our own seaworthy ships and our aeroplanes and bring them back to Oz.If these folk are indeed refugees, then they have a well-founded fear of persecution, murder, torture, rape etc in their home countries, and therefor cannot return. Please don't take my word for it: check the UN definition of the term "refugee". Would it not be better to speed up/streamline the vetting process to determine their refugee status, return them if they are found not to be refugees or release them into the Australian community if they are?You need to do some more homework, mate.Coogera: "They are best supported in refugee camps where costs are low."  Good on your, mate! Much better to have them housed in a poor third-world country, where the wages are low. Isn't that why Telstra, Qantas and all our other countries are off-shoring as quickly as possible? Then we can cut our foreign aid, so we don't have to spend much at all. Oops! We've already done that. Aren't we lucky that we don't have a land border with a country that persecutes its own citizens? Then we'd run out of excuses for not helping those in dire need.A pocketful of wry: Excellent post! Thank you. I've been getting quite nauseated reading all the "I'm not my brother's keeper" tripe posted here by some very sad people. Your post reminds me that there are still those who have their humanity intact.Please note the following information: (1)There is no requirement in international law for refugees to seek asylum in the first country they come to. Some developed countries have made this an additional requirement in order to avoid processing claims, leaving the large numbers of asylum seekers in camps in Third World countries. International law requires that asylum seekers should not be penalised according to the way in which they enter a country. Australia's current policy does not accord with this requirement. (Edmund Rice Centre)
(2) Article 31 of the Refugee Convention clearly states that refugees should not be penalised for arriving without valid travel documents. What may be considered an illegal action under normal circumstances (e.g. entering a country without a visa) should not, according to the Convention, be considered illegal if a person is seeking asylum. (Refugee Council of Australia)
Coogera: "The current policy is humane, just and pragmatic." 
You really should proof-read your entries. This should read, "The current policy is pragmatic, just not humane."
Happy to help!
Well, the campaign to reinvent and rebadge Tony Abbott is now in full swing. First Annabel Crabb, now Terry Barnes (Abbott v Putin: the grudge match). According to these two articles, we are now to view Abbott as a man of "strong and charismatic personal leadership", and ignore his past petty-minded partisan behaviour. His trashing of any attempts to protect the environment are to be reframed as responsible and sensible, and his budget, which unfairly targets the poor and vulnerable, is to be interpreted as fiscally responsible. I don't doubt that he is genuine in his concern for the victims of the MH17 disaster and their relatives, but I'm equally convinced that  there is a  palpable "relief in Abbott's voice and demeanour" now that he has a chance to show another side to his nature. Sorry, folks: he's still the same PM we had before this tragedy. Dressing him up in a shining suit of armour and placing him on a white charger can not disguise his shortcomings.gbe: I find your post really disturbing. You appear to live in a drab world of black and white: black lefties and white righties. No shades of gray, no colour: just bad guys and good guys. In another time and place, you would be warning people about the dreaded commies, Jews, witches or infidels. Just because someone questions the status quo does not make them lefty, wrong or evil. Is it possible to discuss facts and ideas without trying to lump participants into convenient value-laden categories?Matt: So is everyone who doesn't support Abbott's policies and responses merely an exception to your assertion? Stop trying to talk for all of us.
I love the language of many conservatives. When they want to devalue something admirable, like environmental concerns or compassion, they label it an "industry" and claim that their perspective is "real", indicating that all others are fake. Funny: when I read your "Realist" post, I heard the rising strains of a tune. much like the music heard toward the triumphal end of a movie where the heroes have won the day. It wasn't "Advance Australia Fair": it was "Land of hope and glory". Have a nice day, y'all!Whilst I share your concerns about organised religion, I fear that you are ignoring a basic problem with human nature: we love the security and power associated with belonging to a group. If we were able to scrap religion, people would still be tribal in their nature. Rival nationalities, football team supporters supporters of different philosophies or brands of ice-cream would still find cause for fighting."I am not suggesting, for one moment, that all criticism of Israel or protests related to Israel's actions equates to antisemitism": Im pleased you included this, Glen, but I'm still a tad suspicious about your agenda. Take it as read that I fervently believe that anti-semitism in Australia is rising to the surface as a result of events in Gaza, just as Islamophobia has become more obvious since 11/9 (That's 9/11 to those who prefer American dyslexia). What concerns me is that those of us who condemn Israel's disproportionate military actions in Gaza, and it's frightening "collateral" killing of civilians are still likely to be accused of anti-semitism.Yes, Hamas and Hezbollah militants "have carried out violent attacks against innocent civilians", and stand condemned for this, but Israeli forces have been doing the same thing. We should be able to condemn both, without facing accusations of Islamophobia or anti-semitism. Islam is not the enemy, Jews are not the enemy: political and religious extremists are the enemy.Michael T: I suggest you check out the following quotation, and consider its relevance: Enemies, as well as lovers, come to resemble each other over a period of time." (Sydney Harris) In trying to protect us from a potential threat, the government runs the risk of becoming the threat. Those who have read Orwell's 1984 and taken its messages to heart are rightly concerned about Big Brother watching us. Yes, some really bad people exist on this Earth, and you're not paranoid if you are worried about them. Unfortunately, most "bad people" believe that what they're doing is "good", if only good for them. I have no doubt that the politicians who have designed these strategies believe that they are for our own good, but that doesn't mean that we shouldn't be very suspicious about how far their surveillance will go, if they are given free rein. I don't believe that "we're all really friends on planet Earth": I have a healthy suspicion concerning known enemies, and friendly governments that can be just as much of a threat. 
"Those of us with nothing to hide have nothing to fear."? Fine: please provide me with your real name and address, and I'll organise a squad of governmental "peeping Toms" to start peering into your house and every aspect of your life.
Have a nice day.Thank you, Joseph. You've presented a thoughtful, gentle piece. People are not born prejudiced: they learn it from those around them.Curious party: A thoughtful, sensible and sensitive post. Thank you.Terry: "What a wonderful way to exist: ignore any injustice that doesn't involve you. How about your neighbour? The next town? Your children?"
I'm glad to see that you and I agree. We should be concerned about our neighbours, our fellow human beings. I assume that mean that you too abhor the callous treatment meted out by successive Australian governments to asylum seekers: our neighbours, our fellow human beings.Excellent, Terry. That means that you support an increase in foreign aid, in order to address the "persecution in the native land." Mind you, until we treat these symptoms effectively, there will still be refugees to care for. These problems don't get solved over night, do they? And, of course, we must have a screening system in place that will quickly but thoroughly assess the refugee status of any asylum seekers arriving on our doorstep. None of this "years in detention" or "go back home before we've assessed your refugee status" for us. I'm also assuming that you won't be jumping to the conclusion that all who arrive here by boat have done so because they "would simply like more material comfort." Nice to meet such a fair-minded person, Terry.Ah, Zing, bless your pedantic soul! Yes, I consider other human beings to be neighbours. We live in a small, self-contained ecosystem known as Planet Earth. Ergo, we are all neighbours. In addition, genetic testing indicates that we are all related to a woman whose remains were found in the Rift Valley in Ethiopia. That makes us all relatives. She was nicknamed Lucy, by the way. It really pays to avoid a parochial perspective you know. We do have a common humanity, although some of the views expressed on this forum make me wonder.APM: PLEASE write and submit an article to The Drum, instead of constantly complaining that the "Right" (whatever that is) is not represented. Better still, encourage your friends and colleagues to submit articles too. Deluge the ABC with them: surely at least one will get through.Tom1: A "lefty" government returned? Where would you find one of those in Australia? If you're referring to the current Labor Party, they're neither left nor Labor. At the last election I was asked to choose between Liberal Party 1 (Liberal) and Liberal Party 2(Labor). Let me know when Labor recovers its principles and I might consider voting for it some time.Tom1: You dare say, but you'd be wrong. Thankfully I'm in no way responsible for the current government's callous attacks on the vulnerable. My point is that Labor has deserted the fairness that used to characterise it, lurching to the right in order to gain redneck votes. . Their Pacific solution was almost as bad as Howard's. Oh for a return of Whitlam style Labor!stupendus: Actually, I don't have a fly buy card for this very reason. I've also committed a crime in today's society: I cut up my credit card years ago. I rely on cash: no cash, no buy. It's quite liberating.
Yes, Mr Orwell, Big Brother is watching us! In keeping with our caring and benevolent government's latest spying strategies, designed purely for our own good, I propose a citizens' watch committee whose job it is to monitor the communications and daily lives of all politicians. This will, of course, require metadata gathering and analysis, the use of spy cameras and listening devices installed in the offices and homes of politicians, and round the clock covert surveillance. Warrants for these activities will be unnecessary, since the committee would only be acting in the nation's interests. Information gathered must be kept on secure computers: should these be hacked, the committee will be authorised to say, "Whoops! I didn't see that coming.""V for Vendetta": a fictitious film (or was it?) warns people not to give up their freedoms, their justice system in exchange for apparent security.
"I know why you did it. I know you were afraid. Who wouldn't be? War, terror, disease. There were a myriad of problems which conspired to corrupt your reason and rob you of your common sense. Fear got the best of you, and in your panic you turned to the now high chancellor, Adam Sutler. He promised you order, he promised you peace, and all he demanded in return was your silent, obedient consent." Thank goodness we are neither obedient nor silent in response to governments that would eat away at our rights, until we become the very society that we are trying to protect ourselves against."to suggest that this barbaric act was due to a particular racial profile, religion or culture would be illegal":
It wouldn't simply be illegal: such a claim is an attack on common sense and constitutes the worst sort of racism. Whilst I agree that the litany of crimes you present are disgusting, your implied link between race, religion and criminality is abhorrent. By all means condemn the crime, but spare me the "Islam calls on adherents to commit these crimes." Religious extremists, be they Muslim, Hindu or Christian do not represent the majority of a religion's adherents. Mainstream Islam is peaceful, tolerant and caring. By and large, those who seek asylum in Australia are fleeing the very extremism you condemn.Much as I detest the callousness and short-sightedness of the current government, I can't help feeling that the level of vindictive glee on this forum is somewhat premature. The Liberal's term in government has some time to run, and the Labor opposition is often conspicuous in its absence when it come to presenting an alternative vision for Australia. It might be claimed that Shorten and co. have developed such a vision, but it is not getting airplay on Murdoch's media. Sadly, I think that that is not the whole sorry. My memory is not so short that I have forgotten Labor's participation in the "Bash an Asylum seeker for your country" campaign that the Liberals have merely taken to new depths of cruelty. I still remember the weather-vane "catch up with the opposition" policies of Gillard/Rudd. If voters are to choose between a known evil and a vaguely formed one at the next election, I'm not sure which way they'll jump. So, in my mind, we have two hurdles to jump before we can start singing "Ding dong, the with is dead". The Liberals ARE in government, at least until the next election, and Labor hasn't yet got its act together.Veganpuncher: "it encourages poor and stupid people to breed" Wow! Now there's an elitist view if ever I heard one. Am I to understand that you equate poverty with stupidity? So all the poor students that I helped through high school or into university were really rich people in disguise? Sheesh! If you want an example of rich and stupid, you only have to look at the man who formulated this inequitable policy.Happy to discuss it, Pun. In fact I've tried on a number of occasions, but few people wish to discuss equal parenting, or consider that males can take time off work to care for young children. I've taken long service leave at half time to help raise my children, while my wife returned to work. No paid parental leave for us. Unfortunately, not all people accrue long service leave. Still, there's nothing to stop fathers taking time off work to nurture young children. Parents should share the impost on careers and income. Tony's scheme should be renamed "Paid Mother's Leave", considering the way he's trying to sell it. Do I hear the faint whispers of "sexism" or "gender stereotyping"? Yep, I thought so.Point of order here. Are we assuming that (a) the USA wanted to impose democracy on Iraq and (b) that the USA is, in practical terms, a democracy? What percentage of Americans actually vote in your average US election?Er, Mr Coochey sir, I think that, if you look closely at your assertions, you'll find a couple of rather significant flaws:
"any obligation we have to genuine refugees is only to those coming here directly from persecution"
1. Can one assume that those currently in detention are there precisely because their refugee status is yet to be determined? If that is the case, then you cannot assert that they are not "genuine" refugees. I would hate to think that you're one of those jurors who assume that the plaintiff is guilty, even before all the evidence has been examined.  
2. The UN Refugee Convention does not require those fleeing persecution to just pop in to the country next door. It accepts that these people will pass through a number of countries on their way to a safe haven. Indeed, such refugees are specifically looking for a country that is a signatory to the Convention.  Your "asylum shoppers" term just does not hold water. You really should read the UN document, old boy. It will save much embarrassment.Well, let us explore this line of thought a tad more. Let's say that, after a specified length of marriage, my wife and I have not produced biological offspring, and we will son be too old to reproduce, even if there is no other biological impediment. (infertility, for example). At this point, in your ideal world, GRF, would our marriage be annulled? One step further: there are many orphaned children in this world, and my wife and I adopt. Seems a fair basis for a symbiotic relationship: children want and need parents, married couple want children, the two groups get together and everyone is happy. But oh, a problem: in your world, we have to have children who are our biological offspring. Quick: dissolve the marriage and send the children back to the orphanage, where they belong. Is this your line of thinking? No, I'm sorry: I can't take you seriously. Come on, confess, you're simply stirring to get a reaction. Right????Just read through half of these posts and gave up.  Repetitious arguments. Yes, I've got the message: twice the number of applicants for the vacancies advertised. (Or thereabouts) Many jobs out of reach, because not all applicants have the skill-set/education required. Need to work on job creation, rather than punishing the poor sods who are unemployed. Fine! Now let's put our minds into working out ways to: 1. Create more jobs 2. Help the unemployed to re-skill/update education.  Wouldn't that be far more productive than swapping anecdotes and repeating condemnation of the current government? I already know that they've got it wrong. Surely you guys are smart enough to suggest specific strategies that they could use to get it right?????VoterBentleigh: Oh dear. Either you have mistaken me for someone else, or I did not explain myself clearly enough. My point is that the majority of posters are in agreement that the current government's tactic of blaming the victim, blaming and punishing the unemployed for being unemployed is disgusting. I share this view. I'm just tired of hearing people (myself included) wallow in the identification of the problem. I've attended too many staff meetings in which ALL of the time is spent describing the problem, and virtually none is spent developing strategies to solve it. Now we know that the government's strategies are unacceptable, what can we (all of us) suggest is the best way to tackle the unemployment problem, given that there are more people looking for jobs than there are jobs available? As an individual, I may have some ideas, but I was hoping to redirect the collective wisdom of those present toward formulating a range of solutions. 
You want some suggestions? For a start, we need to spend some money now to reap the rewards later. This means directing money and resources to education and retraining. I got out of a Housing Trust ghetto because of Whitlam's free tertiary education, plus a government scholarship. Get rid of TAFE and university fees and therefor HECS debts. Invest in the future, rather than blaming people for not having skills and outsourcing jobs to 457 visa holders.
Secondly, the government needs to invest in job creation schemes: the creation of REAL jobs, not just pulling up African Daisies or unblocking council drains.

Yes, we pay politicians and their departments to come up with strategies to solve the problem, but it's obvious that their thinking is restricted by political ideology. They actually NEED the electorate to tell them what they need and want. They need to have our feedback and ideas. You may be willing to leave it to the political "experts", but, given the current crop of polies, they need all the help they can get.
Darn it, VV: Now you've given me a mind-worm. You're right, though. This will now become a national sport. I'd like to "kick it off" with something the Libs could use to attack what they see as a terrible leftist conspiracy: the ABC. We'll call it "Operation Outsource Auntie". I'm sure Murdoch could provide all the news and current affairs programs, while Disney and Fox attend to the frothy conservative drama. Keep the shell name ABC, but turn it into an advertisement-driven commercial enterprise. Now there's balance for you.
Ah, APM! So good to see you again. Your posts provide a constancy and predictability in my life. 
Just for argument's sake, let us assume that the ABC is a totally biased left-wing propaganda machine. Can we also accept that Murdoch and Fairfax constitute the equivalent right-wing version? There's your balance for you: Tony Jones vs Alan Jones (With an Andrew Bolt thrown in for free)  All the audience has to do is look left, then right, and split the difference to detect the truth.Does that work for you?I'm ambivalent about this whole issue. On the one hand, the gung-ho, green beret labelling of the exercise to repatriate the bodies of the victims as "Operation Bring Them Home" nauseates me. On the other hand, if the families of the victims will be served and comforted by the exercise, then I applaud it. Personally, if I am ever blown up in this heinous fashion, I hope that my relatives and country leave my corporeal remains where they are. If I'm dead, you can't bring me home.APM: "they slip in lots of little Left nuggets that are attempts to manipulate me by presenting contentious opinions as facts. It won't fool me." I'm pleased that you have this degree of personal insight, APM. Having read a number of your posts, I must agree with your self-assessment that nothing and no-one will ever sway you from a judgement once you've made it. It must be extremely comforting for you to live in a world in which any views that contradict your own can be automatically classified as "left" and therefor discarded as irrelevant or laughable. Some of us are cursed with questions and scepticism, but your world is one of absolute surety. In my world, politicians are human beings, (whether they be Labor, Liberal, Green or Independent) who have their strengths and weaknesses. Given the power they have over my life, I will continue to question and analyse their actions and motives, while you give one party your absolute approval.Chaz: Pro-Russian?? Are you and I reading different articles? Perhaps you didn't read the following extract: "Trying to understand what Russia or its separatist allies in Ukraine are doing does not require us to agree with their views or approve of their conduct, especially not now. But unless we make some effort to understand how Russia's leaders see the situation, and what their real motivations are, we are unlikely to formulate an effective policy to address the present crisis." Not "approve" but "understand". Got it?"Evidence smhevidence." Good on ya, Harvey! We don't need evidence. Much better to go with yer gut than worry about inconvenient evidence that contradicts what we believe. We Aussies don't want to be part of a knowledge nation: that's for "snotty up themselves researchers".
"Why would these stories be out there if they aren't true?" Well said! Repeated rumours are much more reliable than research-based evidence, aren't they? Hell, if I had to go to the trouble of looking at the facts, I might have to question my perfectly sound prejudices. (Give us another beer, Wozza! All this thinking is making me thirsty.)No! They are not following the tenets of Islam.Islam does NOT demand that Muslims "kill all who oppose the imposition of Sharia law and an Islamic state." Those who follow this group of nutcases have a warped interpretation of Islam. The majority of Muslim are peaceful and moderate and know that the true jihad is the personal struggle that individuals engage in between their base desires and the goodness in all. It is not a fight against the infidel. I am not a Muslim or a Christian or a member of any religion, but I've done enough research to know this. The Quran also demands that devout Muslims respect all "Children of the Book": Christians, Muslims and Jews. The Quran is heavily based on the Old Testament. Suicide is strictly forbidden, which shows you that terrorists who use suicide bombing tactics are about as far from being true Muslims as you can get. Like you, I condemn the disgusting behaviour of radicals, but I refuse to tar all Muslims with the same brush.  Personally, I'd be happy to see the disappearance of all organised religion, but, given human nature, I'm sure people would find something else to fight about.If people insist on denigrating Islam/all Muslims on the basis of the nastiness of a minority, then they need to be reminded of the truth. "The peaceful majority are irrelevant"??? That's an awful lot of irrelevance you're claiming there. The atrocities committed by the Nazi SS who claimed that "God is with us" can similarly not be used to condemn all Germans or all Christians for all time. Truth is never irrelevant. Just because some supposedly Christian Australians are racist and xenophobic, does not mean that we can characterise Australians as universally embodying these traits.There's a conservative mindset in our community which sees society as a meritocracy. This mindset assumes that, if you are intelligent, talented and hard-working, you will rise to the top of the social ladder. The better you are at this game, the richer you become. The flip side of this coin is the assumption that, if you are unemployed and poor, you must be stupid, lacking in talent and incredibly lazy. The beauty of this philosophy is that winners get to look down on the less fortunate and blame them for their misfortune.Artful Dodger: Exactly!I may not totally agree with your scenario, but I like the fact that you're looking at alternatives and permutations. Most governments have a simplistic, linear mode of thinking with regard to unemployment.reality bites: "i wonder if thu-trang tran and her parents destroyed all evidence of their identification before they arrived?"
I have no doubt that some asylum seekers "destroy all evidence of their identification", either off their own bat, or at the the behest of people smugglers. I have no evidence that this is the case for all who come seeking asylum. Perhaps you have this evidence and would like to share it with us? Is it not possible that many did not have papers to bring? Imagine you're living in the path of a fast-moving bushfire and part of your house is already alight. Do you rush into your house to retrieve identity and insurance documents, or do you get the hell out of there? By definition, refugees are fleeing the equivalent of a bushfire.My father and his parents were "first-wave" or "white emigres" who fled the Bolsheviks in Russia in 1917 and ended up in the UK. Obviously, there was no UN Refugee Convention at the time and, as now, there were no queues to join. They simply ran for their lives, shunted from one country to another until they found a safe haven in England. The concept of a refugee queue is a convenient fiction created by those who "have" (peace, security, possessions etc) to defend against those who "have not". It would appear that people such as Giles and Gavin apply the term "genuine" to refugees who have the patience and good fortune to survive in third-world refugee camps and win a place in the selection lottery that will give them a chance to start a new life in Australia or any other signatory to the UN Refugee Convention. Many Asian countries are not signatories, and end up as virtual transit camps for vast numbers of asylum seekers and refugees. Like my father and grandparents, they too are shunted from one country to another.john: "we, the majority"? I'm not sure where you got the impression that you are the spokesperson for the majority of Australians, but one could never accuse you of possessing "generosity of spirit". Still, your comments on issues aired on The Drum are ubiquitous, which suggests that you have too much time on your hands. My goodness: does that mean that you are one of "a handful of agitators"? Have a nice day.

John: "It is the illegal economic migrants resorting to bribery and criminality to force entry to Australia that is a problem."
Have you done a thorough statistical survey which indicates that the majority, if not all, of those who have sought asylum in Australia over the last ten years or so are "illegal economic migrants"? Perhaps you haven't completed such a study, but have access to the relevant data from some academic analysis. Please share them with us, so that we might see the light as you have. 
Mark James: I thank you. Yes, I was aware of these figures: I just wanted to see if John was prepared to engaged in evidence-based argument. Unfortunately, he was only prepared to provide emotive obfuscation. I find this rather sad.Right Fred: "one of our best leaders"? There is ample evidence that many Australians do not wish to follow this man, or his government. How can he be an effective leader, let alone "one of our best" with less followers each day?Brian Francis: "So what if you or I don't like him?"
I neither like, nor dislike Abbott. I don't even know the man. It is many of the policies of the current government that I dislike, simply because they are both short-sighted and, with regard to pensioners, the unemployed, students and lower income earners, downright inequitable."We live in a society, not an economy." I'm not sure who first made this observation, but those who formulated the current Liberal budget obviously don't agree. As far as they're concerned, Australia is first and foremost a business, and like any good business, it needs to eliminate waste and maximise profits. If this means getting rid of liabilities, otherwise known as people, then so be it. If this means dispensing with ethical constraints that hamper profit, then that's what they will do. Very few people would disagree that a nation has to live within its means: services and infrastructure need to be provided, and these cost money. But the fact is that Australia is NOT a business: it IS a society, and the job of governments is to maintain the health of that society. Their first priority should be to create social capital, not merely financial capital.Here's a useful definition of "social capital": the network of social connections that exist between people, and their shared values and norms of behaviour, which enable and encourage mutually advantageous social cooperation." Social capital is an attitudinal concept that requires people to defer their demand for immediate selfish gain, in order to create a mutually advantageous society that, in the long term, will still satisfy their needs. Social capital exists in such concepts as compassion, generosity of spirit, wisdom, experience, respect and consideration for the needs of others. You know: all those wishy-washy, tree-hugging, bleeding-heart ideas. You can see it in organisations such as the CFS, Red Cross, Surf Lifesaving, and in that fast-fading concept of "a fair go." It's a "pay it forward" thing, where people actually act ethically, establishing an ethical, caring tone in the society in which they live. The more you set up governmental frameworks that blame the victim (the unemployed, the sick, pensioners etc) and reward the rich perpetrator of social inequity, the more you erode social capital. If you reward selfishness, you encourage a selfish society. If you reward and demonstrate caring, you get a caring society. Selfish sods will always take advantage of mechanisms set up the protect the vulnerable, but I'd much rather my children inherit a tradition for compassion than one that rewards meanness or insensitive pragmatism.Promise to produce "a White Paper on taxation by the middle of next year and to take changes to the next election"?? So what happens in the interim? How long does the government intend to wait before it rectifies the problems associated with the current budget? The longer they leave it, the higher their trust deficit, such that whatever they take to the next election will be meaningless: they won't be elected to implement it!You know what's boring? Every time a new government gets elected, its spokespeople and supporters spend the first two years or so of their term in office whinging about how they have to fix up their predecessor's mess, incompetence, mismanagement and waste. It never changes: Labor does it and Liberals do it, and it achieves nothing. Do they think it's like some "get out of jail free" card that they can wave if they stuff up or can't fulfil their promises? And then there is the accusation of the opposition engaging in "relentless negativity". Geez. mate: have you forgotten Abbott's constant negativity toward the government during the Rudd/Gillard years? It's what oppositions do, GRF: they oppose!!Susan: The budget is patently unfair, and the Liberals' attempts to explain it are inept. Its impact is/will be disastrous for the disadvantaged, but I cannot accept the image of malicious capitalist swine dreaming up new ways to punish the poor and keep them subjugated. The problem is not one of intent, but of effect. Hockey and co just have no idea about how the majority of people live, or try to live. The designers of this budget are just not very bright and haven't done their homework. They're not villains: they're just stupid.DangerMouse: In your world view, people who have a modicum of ability and a strong work ethic always reap their just rewards. By your definition, people who are well off deserve their wealth and poor people deserve their failure. Life is not like that. Many people start life with the odds stacked against them and struggle to succeed. Some people are born in the right country,  into the right family and are able to capitalise on their assets. Life is not a level playing field.Personally, I'm not sure what went wrong with the man. Up until the election, Joe was one of the few Liberals I had any time for. He seemed affable, intelligent and sensible, the sort of person I'd be happy to do business with. Since the budget, it seems as though he's got two left feet and he keeps inserting them into his mouth. I'm left wondering exactly who concocted this unsellable budget. Was it fabricated by colleagues and professional bean-counters, then thrust at him? Was he left with the task of applying a budget that even he didn't believe in?Just as a matter of interest, what are "luvvies"? I realise it's meant to be a put-down, but the meaning of this non-word escapes me. Does one use such words to replace reasoned critical analysis?"Abbott now presents as a leader for a more dangerous world."
No: Abbott now presents as a more dangerous leader for our world!
"A Government given a noticeable fillip when, confronted by fear, sorrow and anger, we turn to it for paternal reassurance."
Abbott as a father figure? I think I'll leave home!

"We'll fight Islam 100 years", a headline that was a call to arms against an entire world of belief." The media's demonising of an entire religion appeals to the xenophobic nutters who fervently believe that any people who are not like them, people who belong to a different faith, are intrinsically evil. Islam is not the problem: radicals of any faith, nation or corporation are the problem. 
"I don't need any introspection about my faith" If you are claiming Christian credentials, I suggest you think again. I see no love, compassion, turning the other cheek, doing unto others as you would have them do unto you, and being your brother's keeper. I do see a fair degree of intolerance and elitism.  Methinks the man doth protest too much.APM: I must thank you for this information. One Muslim psychiatrist announces that "Muslims are prone to terrorism and antisocial behaviour", so it must be true. I must quickly go to my local GP, a well-educated, engaging and urbane fellow who happens to be a Muslim, and tell him to report for screening and deportation forthwith. I will then speak to the students and staff at an Australian Islamic school that I have visited frequently, and inform them that, despite their apparent peaceful, studious and patriotic manner, they are all to be shipped to Mannus Island this weekend. 

Quite frankly, I have little time for any organised religion, but Islam is no better or worse than any other creed. Islamists do not define Islam: they are a perversion. You'll find the same propensity for good or evil in any religion. Crikey, Islam, Judaism and Christianity have the same DNA and follow the same 10 commandments. 
I agree, yank, but there's one other thing that the bean counters have not factored in. Whether or not poorer folk drive much or own cars, they still purchase things that need to be transported...like food. Increase the cost of fuel and you increase the cost of getting it to supermarkets. And guess what: the extra cost will be passed on to consumers. Once more the disadvantaged pay more and can afford less.Just why would you wish to save the GP co-payment? It's not designed to address the deficit, since the funds go to medical research. If it's meant as a "price signal" to deter people from visiting a GP, then it's essentially saying, "Don't seek medical treatment: suffer stoically." Australian men are already reluctant to see a doctor: check out prostate cancer deaths to see one of the results of this. I love it: look after your car, service it regularly and fix small problems before they escalate, but when it comes to your health, just hope for the best.Realist: It is very easy to be blase about change if it's not going to inconvenience you very much. As the article(and many more before it) points out, the percentage of disposable income that the co-payment will cost the disadvantaged is far higher than it will be for the financially secure. Are you arguing from a position of such security?glen: You appear to assume that anyone who is "inconvenienced" by the co-payment is lazy and uneducated and deserves any problems it causes. I see: so, if you're poor, unemployed, chronically ill or a pensioner, then you've obviously frittered away your life and have only yourself to blame if you struggle to afford a "modest" co-payment for your health care. I hope that I have misread your post: if so, I apologise.glen: You cite anecdotal evidence to support your perspective, but such evidence is notoriously unreliable. My wife is also a GP, and her experience contradicts yours. Maybe she's been lucky: maybe you've been unlucky, or your patient demographic is different from hers. Too many variables for me to accept your point as true.Maz: Well, since most people agree that Imperialism is unhealthy, I suppose we should thank Obama for initiating the fall of the American empire.Rusty: It's obviously most inconvenient for you that the world is in such a mess and that war, torture and suffering are producing refugees in record numbers. I can assure you that being a refugee is not a preferred lifestyle option. No, I'm not talking about those who leave a country looking for a better lifestyle, your so-called "economic refugees": I'm talking about people such as the Yazidi in Iraq who are faced with a stark choice: leave or die. Your tired, inaccurate terminology "queue jumping immigration" obviously doesn't take such people into account, and confuses immigration with the desperation of refugees.  Just how many refugees do you think have arrived in Australia? Let me guess: you think it's a tidal wave designed to undermine our way of life and take away our jobs? You probably see 5 million refugees ready to pounce on Australia if we weaken our "border protection" for just a second. I suggest that you do a little research. Australian unemployment is a problem that has to be addressed, but it won't be solved by simplistically finding refugee scapegoats to blame.James, there's a slight glitch in your reasoning, I'm afraid. Advance notice given to allow for alternative job moves is all well and good except for the fact that new jobs are not being created. Dumping a quarter of a million people onto a labour market in which there are significantly more job seeker than there are jobs means that there will be far more people unemployed. That is not hyperbole!Four legs good, two legs bad
Liberals good, Labor bad
Democracy good, communism bad
America good, China bad

Hello Zing. How's the conservative mantra going?
An illogical link between privacy concerns and "freedom of speech". How did you manage that? Oh, I get it: it's the "Yes Minister" technique, similar to a politician answering the question he wants to answer, instead of the one that's asked. "The real question is...."Huh? Adding the words "freedom of" to the word "privacy" is meant to make it equivalent to "freedom of speech"??? Strange mentation!One of the points the article makes, John, is that the sort of monitoring/retention proposed does not stop lunatics from blowing up a school bus. It's just another thought bubble designed to convince us that the government is "doing something to prevent terrorism". Add to that the fact that those proposing it don't even know what they're proposing. Laughable!My initial reaction to the government's proposal to retain and monitor my data was, "More government Big Brother tactics!" Yes, like the yank, I was worried about further invasion of my privacy. The more I read and listen to about this issue, the more I realise that the government just hasn't got a clue what it intends to do with this "metadata". It seems that I can relax now, knowing that Inspector Clouseau/Brandis is on the job. 
Can you imagine what sort of MAYHEM people could cause for those using this ADVANCEd software algorithm if they BOMBarded the Internet with messages that were liberally sprinkled with key words designed to ALERT the authorities? Sounds like BOOM times for the data analysis industry. :-)APM: "Voters don't reject budgets, Senates do."    Oh dear. And there's silly old me living with the delusion that senators were elected by voters who demonstrably didn't want the Liberals to have total control of the senate. Well, bless my soul: those pesky voters have essentially told the senate to keep the bastards honest and reject inequitable budget measures.I suspect that many people are missing a major point when discussing Abbott's determination to "axe the tax". I doubt that it has anything to do with scientific evidence, vested interests of the mining industry or corporations, or even ideology. Abbott formulated this policy purely in order to attack the previous government. He then pushed it so hard, that, whatever his personal beliefs, he was committed to it. He can't back down because he believes it would further erode his credibility. Yes, it's all about power: political power.Malcolm Fraser had something worthwhile to say about the current government's "border protection" policy and procedure: 

"Secrecy is completely inadequate for democracy, but totally appropriate for tyranny. If the minister will not inform the public, then we are within our rights to assume the worst."

And please, no diatribes about not giving information to the evil people smugglers. Unfortunately for this argument, those sneaky criminal, queue-jumping, economic refugees (otherwise known as human beings in need) can actually use mobile phones. What the Australian public needs is credible information about methods, motives and legality directly from the government.It would seem that we need a translation of some of the terms used by posters such as Thelma T. Allow me to be of some help:
"genuine refugees" = those who have the good manners to wait and suffer patiently for years somewhere else, so Australia doesn't have to be disturbed by them.
"economic migrants", "queue jumpers" &amp; "illegals" = those who arrive on our shores asking for asylum. 

It's quite simple, really.I'm hoping that, whichever candidate wins the Indonesian election, Abbott and co. will decide to adopt some real diplomacy in dealing with him and his government. Abbott's current dealings with others appear to have been characterised by a "Sod you, I'll do what I want anyway," approach, rather than discussion, thought and negotiation. What he sees as strength and decisiveness, I see as an inability to accommodate views other than his own, and an unwillingness to allow new information to get in the way of a good prejudice.Albo: "genuine refugees are rotting away in camps unlikely to get to Australia whilst the economic boat migrants keep filling the intake numbers here"  I love that term "genuine refugees". It's so succinct, yet it means so much. It means that any who come by boat to seek asylum are, by definition, not real refugees. No need to apply a test or investigate the claim. Boat = economic refugee. "Genuine refugees" will rot away in camps, so we won't have to take them either.  Either way, Australia doesn't have to share anything or live up to its obligations as a signatory to the UN Refugee Convention. What a great catch 22 you've presented. Congratulations!Boko Haram kidnaps girls in Nigeria as part of a campaign for a political/religious objective. Somali pirates capture ships and crew in international waters and holds them for financial gain. Abbott's government (apparently) seizes a ship in international waters and holds passengers and crew in unknown location, in order to enforce a political objective. Do we condemn these actions equally, or are kidnapping and piracy acceptable if they're carried out by Australian authorities?Thank you for your response, Coogara. Unfortunately, you have not addressed my core concern. If the boat was indeed seized in international waters/the high seas, then Australia's seizure and incarceration of passengers and crew, without access to legal representation, would appear to constitute a crime. "In many countries they would be thrown in jail and abused", you say. Is it meant to reassure me that we may well be sending people to one such country?For those of a religious bent, try reading Mark 8:36 "For what shall it profit a man, if he shall gain the whole world (or "protected" his/her sovereign borders), and lose his own soul?" Imagine that Abbott succeeds in building his impermeable membrane around Australia. What is there left to protect, if he has sold Australia's soul in order to achieve his goal?
mortan: An objection to Abbott's methodology does not automatically equate to a support for Labor. A pox on both their houses I say.MikePS: I'm having the same concerns re piracy and kidnapping. I hope that someone with greater knowledge of international law can clarify this for us.
Would someone please enlighten me with regard to Australian and international law? Is it legal to stop a boat in international waters, take charge of the vessel, and hold its passengers and crew against their will in a secret location?Fine, mike: Let's agree that it is unacceptable for Arabs to expel Jewish folk from areas they've lived in for centuries. Let us be consistent, and add that it is unacceptable for the Jewish State to seize land and property from Arabs and expel them from areas they've lived in for centuries. One rule for all: sounds fair to me. Now, how do we go about enforcing this agreement? Sheesh! I just don't get this 2000 year old fight between one tribe of Arabs and another: or have we forgotten that Jewish folk are also Arabs, who just happen to have a different religious bent from the other Arab tribes?How could they have been traitors: they weren't even recognised as Australian citizens until the 1960s. How could they have been enemies of Australia? They WERE Australia.Poor Zing. So easily offended by those who refuse to see the world the way you do. I'm reminded of the old quip:"I'd engage you in a battle of wits, but I can't bring myself to fight an unarmed opponent."Kevin52: You would appear to have a very narrow definition of the term "war". Perhaps this whole discussion is one of semantics, rather than facts.HPH: Excellent post! Thank you for providing evidence, rather than mere opinion.Horrocks: I have heard your "argument" before, from many people. Your use of the words "real genuine refugees" clearly indicates that you think all asylum seekers who come here by boat are not genuine. What you really mean is that you have a good life here and don't want ANY refugees to flee persecution and come here looking for help. You'd rather they wait in some fictional queue in a third world country and suffer out of sight, out of mind. If you're so determined that this should happen, why not tell your local MP to tear up the Refugee Convention that Australia signed, so that you don't have to worry about niceties such as compassion.Thank you bonzono! Now let's see how the "this is my country: go and suffer somewhere else" brigade reacts to some real information.Just an interesting aside: If you're worried about sharia law, you'll find most of it in the Old Testament. After all, the Quran is largely an adaptation of the Old Testament anyway."Very few of them are actual refugees":???? Belief or wishful thinking do not constitute proof. Let's try a quiz: What percentage of the Tampa asylum seekers were subsequently found to be genuine refugees? Your time starts now.People keep talking about "adults": "adults in charge", the "adults in the room". What is this term "adult" supposed to mean? Has anyone ever given a clear, unbiased definition of the term? Adults are simply older children, not some magically mature, intelligent, responsible entities who will protect and guide we poor misguided juveniles. Yes, the chronologically-defined adults are in charge, but they're just as clueless as the rest of the population. Therein lies the problem!I would have appreciated clarification of the term "autonomy": how it operates and how it is seen to be linked to better learning outcomes. I have seen some some examples of increased school autonomy that have scared me. When school  administrators are given effective hire and fire powers over staff, there is an opportunity for them to ensure the best skills mix for the school community and a cohesive approach to teaching. Fine! There is also the possibility of creating a staff of obedient yes-men and women who will be reluctant to challenge the administration or provide a range of perspectives on an issue. How does one avoid the latter scenario?"Given the entrenched sloth and indolence amongst the majority of public school teachers" 

I thank you for this sweeping statement, and wait with baited breath for the evidence that you are about to present to support it. Had you chosen to use a qualifier (e.g. Based on what I see as the entrenched sloth....), I would not challenge your assertion. As it is, you write with a claim that this is fact, when it is apparently merely your emotional judgement.Thank you, Kerry. At last someone who is prepared to offer a clear illustration of the negative impact of human behaviour on our environment. Forget the waffly term "climate change" and focus on the cause and effect relationship between what we are doing and how it is affecting where we live. The basic fact is that, if you crap in your own nest, the nest will eventually become so toxic that it will kill you. And guess what: this planet is the only nest we've got! It reminds me of the process of fermentation: once the concentration of alcohol gets to a certain level, the bugglies that cause fermentation die. (That's why distillation was invented.:-) )Errr. There's something cockeyed with your logic here. The environment we're talking about is a world environment, not simply an Australian one. Migrants/refugees who don't come to Australia still exist somewhere in the world, and will thus impact on the environment. i.e. Cutting migration doesn't address climate change.The problem with politicians goes far further than their hyperbole/linguistic inflation. I've spoken to individual politicians on a number of occasions, and found the experience frustrating to say the least. What we have is politicians who are incapable of individual thought. Every utterance has been mentally checked against current party policy, which cannot be examined or challenged. Thus, instead of a meaningful exchange of ideas and perspectives, such a conversation consists of the politician mouthing a rehearsed mantra that you've read and heard a thousand times in the media. I realise that, according to current thinking, disunity is death in politics, and, should an individual party member speak from the heart or query party dogma, she/he will be attacked by both the opposition and her/his own party. The problem remains, however, that when individual politicians join a party, they become part of an inflexible machine that cannot question itself or respond to new evidence. Sounds like Startreck's "Borg". No wonder the electorate is searching for independents who just might respond and be accountable to those who elected them.I'm sick of the political obfuscation surrounding Australia's attitudes toward refugees. Whether it's "we must stop them drowning at sea", "people smugglers are evil beings preying on the desperate and must be stopped," "we already take our fair share of legitimate refugees from those standing in a queue in Sudan", "they're just economic refugees" or "there's less than a 50% chance of them being tortured if we send them back", it all comes down to one thing. Australian governments, and a significant % of the Australian population, just don't want refugees here. The central theme here is, "We've got a pretty good life in Australia: don't come here and spoil it by asking for help." Perhaps they'd react with more compassion if the asylum seekers were white Anglo-Saxon Protestants.Errr! A bit of a problem here, from my perspective. Totally agree that, given a choice between living in Russia or living in the US, most people would opt for the US. Given a wider choice, I wouldn't opt for either. However, by stating that Russia is full of corruption and nepotism, you imply that the US doesn't suffer from such things. Wrong! You then state that the US is an established democracy. You and I might disagree about the definition of democracy. Despite its rhetoric (Of the people, for the people and by the people), I'd say that Australia is more of a democracy than the US. What percentage of the American population voted for that joke, George W. Bush? A very small percentage!Yes, debunker, Labor's objections to the Liberal budget (otherwise known as caterwauling and decrying) in relation to its 'unfairness' was only ever a political stratagem. Why are we surprised? Similarly, Abbot's trumpeting of the dangers of terrorism, refugee arrivals and IS, is a political stratagem. In both cases, their voiced concerns may have merit, but the motivation is identical: position yourself as the protector of the Australian people, and wait for the votes to come rolling in.  That's the way our system works. 

As for the "credible LNP pathway to return to surplus", yes it is "credible", in that it is "believable". I do believe that the government means to balance the books by placing a disproportionate financial burden on the country's most vulnerable. I just don't "believe" that this is the best/fairest way to achieve this desirable outcome.This may surprise you, custard, but I agree with your assessment of the current incarnation of the ALP: they stand for nothing. However, I would go one step further: the LNP also stands for nothing. Both parties are hunting and pecking any morsel that will endear them to voters. If there is any sincere belief left in either party, it is the belief that any strategy that gets them into office is a good strategy. Principles? Core values? Who needs them!"stale brand of neo-communism"??? Oh come now! Keating was probably one of the best Liberal PMs we ever had: he just happened to belong to the Labor Party. Rudd and Gillard were steadily steering the Labor Party on a collision course with the Liberals, because they both wanted the same middle/right position. You'd have to go back to Whitlam to get anything approaching a neo-communist.I think you have a point here, cangaiman: Abbott should be leading by example. In fact, I suggest that, in future, any PM who commits us to a war must lead the troops from the front. Further, children of said PM should be conscripted into the army and accompany their beloved parent, to demonstrate how much they believe in the decision. 

Nah, only joking: we'll continue to send other people's parents and children to war, while we sit at home and crow about what a wonderful job WE are doing, and how noble OUR sacrifices for our country are.I can't speak for Toot, but I think it's pretty clear that he/she believes that much of the motivation to "stop the boats" is a desire to keep people of certain races and religions out of the country. Unfortunately, I must agree with Toot. I will guarantee that, if a few boatloads of Kiwis or South Africans of European descent arrived on our shores requesting asylum because they were being persecuted in their own country, they would receive a far more favourable response than that encountered by those coming from the Middle East, Africa or Sri Lanka. This has nothing to do with the possibility of deaths at sea, which is, at best, a smokescreen for our government's actions: it has everything to do with xenophobia.Some Australians are racist: some racists are Australian. Being Australian of European ancestry does not define you as racist. It is a person's attitudes, words and actions that earn them that appellation. The big problem is that Australian culture does have a history of institutionalised (White Australia) and informal racism, and the problem still surfaces, often when we least expect it."Certain religious and ethnic backgrounds should be excluded in the interests of peace, contentment and security." Thanks for the idea, Robert. I agree that we should exclude white Anglo-Saxon Christians. Many of them obviously have a hard time adapting to our multicultural Australia: they are renowned for their intolerance of difference.Strangely enough, I found the employer's overt racism quite refreshing. At least he was honest/up front about it, and it could therefor be dealt with. As a number of posters have observed, if he'd refused employment without stating his reasons, whatever they were, we never would have heard about it. Meanwhile, in the real world, racism, ageism etc are rampant: it's just that Australian employers are savvy enough to keep their reasons for not employing someone private.There are two types of political apology. There's the, "Oops, that didn't work, it could hurt me in the polls, so I'd better pretend I didn't mean it/tell people I've been misinterpreted/"sincerely" apologise. Then there's the, "I can see now that I've made a mistake and inadvertently upset folk, and I am sincerely sorry." Unfortunately, the former is more common than the latter. Very few politicians can successfully feign sincerity, but they all have a crack at it.Peter: No doubt I am wasting my time in responding to your post, but I shall give both of us the benefit of the doubt: 
The terms countryshoppers, economic refugees and queue jumpers (etc) are often applied to to people whose refugee status has not yet been assessed. This is like stating that someone is guilty of a crime, simply because he/she has been accused of it. Would you be in favour of dispensing with the court system in Australia and jumping straight from the arrest to the prison sentence?
The other insidious element associated with these terms is that they serve to dehumanise those to whom they are applied. ie "These are not people: they are countryshoppers." The terms indicate the guilt of those who are meant to wear them. I'm sorry, but simply calling someone a name does not convince me that they are deserving of condemnation."Sticking to that delusion will help ensure the ALP fails to engage in meaningful reform." I find this statement rather disturbing. I would have thought that any citizen of this country would want both government and opposition parties to make meaningful reforms, such that they offer two valid options for governance. Surely this would be far more beneficial in a "robust democracy" than voters sticking slavishly to one team or the other?

Just as a matter of interest, how would you differentiate between "populism" and "consensus"?There's a predictably pointless pattern developing in this discussion. A Labor supporter will criticise the Abbott government, saying, "Abbott got this wrong." Immediately, a Liberal supporter will respond with, "Yeah, but Labor got it wronger!" I don't give a toss about which party is the more incompetent: I'd just like to explore the issue. The Liberals are currently in power. Surely we have a responsibility to discuss the validity of their actions in terms of what is best for the country? It doesn't matter what Labor did, is doing or should do. Sheesh!The Drum has its own fair share of trolls, ranging from the provocative devil's advocates to those who resort to personal abuse of anyone who dares to express a view with which they disagree. They are dealt with simply by either not responding to their posts or presenting calm, logical, evidence-based argument in reply.
Agreed, Sea Monster: We have two centre/right parties: Liberal 1 (the LNP) and Liberal 2 (Labor). I sometimes find it hard to tell the difference between the two these days.I totally agree, frangipani. Trying to reduce a discussion to bipolar opposites destroys the subtler aspects of it. The main problem is that, when people decide that you're in one extreme camp or the other, they either dismiss or blindly embrace what you have to say, depending on their own political bent."But the PBO only looks at the impact of the measures on spending in total terms - it doesn't make any judgement on which households will shoulder most of the burden of these cuts, nor whether similar - or more efficient or equitable - savings could have been made through other measures."  This would appear to be the major problem. Very few people would disagree with the proposition that the government needs more income and less expenditure. The thing that sticks in most people's craws is the the way in which Abbott &amp; co are trying to balance the books. A disproportionate impost on those least able to afford it is not going to gain the Libs much support. How about a new budget that gets the balance right?Err: negotiation implies compromise and modification. If some of the legislation is intrinsically flawed, isn't it appropriate to simply throw it out?Sandra S: My problem is that no-one has yet taken the effort to explain what is meant by the term, "Team Australia." I cannot support something if I don't know what it is and what is entailed in being part of it. If it entails one-eyed support, as in "my country, right or wrong", then I must decline any invitation to join. Because I care about my country, I want it to be the best it can be. This means pointing out its shortcomings, and working to rectify them, not pretending they're unimportant because it's MY country.  If being part of Team Australia means blindly following the dictates of the government of the day, I must again respectfully decline membership. In terms of the current government, and the two before that, I wouldn't follow them into a pub offering free beer.Oh dear, I seem to have ruffled your feathers TC. No, it is not that simple. I refuse to adopt a simplistic response: that is for those who accept blind obedience. Gung-ho, jingoistic patriotism is for sheep, and I suspect that this is what Abbott had in mind when he coined the term.ardy: Chris has told you what you want to hear, so you believe it without question. Still, as an IPA director, that's his job. The IPA is about as objective as a union spokesperson. Both pick information that suits their world view and ignore the big picture.ardy: If you spend less time being combative and insulting, you will note that I questioned the objectivity of the author, and indicated that spokespersons for unions are just as suspect. Try a little critical literacy: read the text with an awareness that the author has a particular bias. Check his syntax and lexicon, and be aware that he has selected some information from Swan's book that supports his premise, yet not chosen to present other contextual information. I have no doubt that there was a political agenda behind aspects of the stimulus, but that was not the only motivating factor. It just happens to be the only factor that suited Chris' purpose. Analysis should not be based on preconceived notions: it should be based on a desire to sift through the clues to find the elements of truth amidst a sea of subjective, emotive techniques.I have one little problem with this article, and its name is IPA. The Institute of Public Affairs is not, as the name suggests, an unbiased entity created to serve the public. As most people know, it is a conservative think tank, and its brief is to promote big business interests and those of our conservative party with the equally inappropriate title, "Liberal Party". I take everything that emanates from the IPA, and any Labor Party equivalents, with a pillar of salt! There is no doubt that Chris Berg's agenda is not simply to inform. That being said, Chris serves his masters well: this is a persuasive piece, as long as you ignore its source."Democracy needs a healthy and free media but the age of the press barons already may be in its final phase." This article raises more questions than answers. It implies that the loss of media barons means the loss of a "healthy and free media." Since when has the current media duopoly provided such a thing? Both have been preoccupied with interpretation and persuasion at the cost of objective information. Yes, the populace need to be kept informed about their world if they are to make informed decisions, but has that really been happening up to this point? Social media outlets such as Twitter are also questionable in terms of reliability, often serving as conduits for unverifiable Chinese whispers. Specialist news sites are often "user pays", and thus unavailable to those who refuse to use the Internet to pay for goods and services, and those who simply can't afford them. On the one hand, I would celebrate the demise of press barons, as it would mean an end to their power over public opinion. On the other hand, I'm at a loss to suggest what might take their place in informing people about the world they live in. Yes, we will still have the ABC, but some question its objectivity. (Not me!) Besides, the best way to remain informed is to access a variety of information sources and formulate your own opinion and understanding by cross-referencing the information gleaned thereby.Maybe now rusted-on Labor and Liberal supporters will stop exchanging pleasantries such as "loony lefty" and "rabid righty", and realise that the problem is politicians, not parties. "Power corrupts, and absolute power corrupts absolutely." (Lord Acton)"luvie lefties" is the intellectual equivalent of "rabid righties". Are we in for another round of schoolyard insults, or would you like to engage in a constructive discussion?"academic nous" is not synonymous with intelligence, as Abbott demonstrates every day.I think that there should be a new rule for military engagement in Australia: any PM who commits our country to combat will be required to lead the troops in person. It is far too easy for old fart politicians to commit us (meaning the young) to foreign wars that either achieve nothing, or achieve the opposite of the initial intention. I'd love to see how willing Abbott would be to stand in the front line under fire.Traditionally, Tasmania has had an agricultural economy: they've either grown things or chopped them down. The backbone of its economy has been unskilled labour, but the world has moved on, and they've been left behind. The population is small and dispersed. Small communities have clung to their small local schools, resisting any push to amalgamate them to create bigger, more effective schools that can offer a broad curriculum. From memory, high school goes up to year 10: you then have to move on to senior schools further from home. It's at this transition that many have withdrawn from formal education and sought unskilled rural employment.Confused about comments section: Posted 2 replies, and neither got through. Nothing offensive, si I doubt it's censorship. I'll try again:

China: "disingenuous": insincere, calculating, misleading? Well, actually no. This is just a set of figures and I find them interesting. I take your point that they might be interpreted as highlighting our differences. I interpret them as indicating diversity and richness in our mix. As for disunity, I'm not sure what you mean. Do you suggest that we rally around the government and uncritically endorse its every pronouncement and policy? I think not. It is because I love this country that I am prepared to be harsh in my criticism of it, when it falls short of its positive potential. I want it to be the best it can be. Persecution of asylum seekers, the elderly, the unemployed, students and the sick is not something I want in my Australia. When the government gets it wrong, the only reason we should get behind it is to push it in the right direction.

APM "We will never know each other and are happy this way." I'm sorry: have I misread you? You appear to be saying that it's admirable for people to remain isolated within their own cultural bubbles, never understanding how others view and react to the world. Now there's a recipe for peace and understanding between nations: not!
I don't understand: 1. Why would someone want to know the identity of the man who donated the sperm that led to their conception, apart from some idle curiosity? You don't inherit a swag of personality characteristics from your father's genetic makeup. You are not your genes.
2. Why should legislation be changed to break a legal contract/agreement that was entered into by a donor who was assured of anonymity?
3. What rights would the donor have to refuse contact and revelation of his identity under any legislation relating to this issue?
4. What are the legal implications in relation to the child's rights to lay claim to the estate of the donor/ask for financial support?  

The only benefit to finding out about your genetic inheritance might be gang knowledge concerning family medical history. I would welcome any constructive answers to these questions, since, as I stated, I really don't understand what the fuss is about.

gd: Listen, mate, I don't give a toss about Labor or Liberal. I'm just looking at the budget that's been brought down by the current government. Who cares if Labor got it wrong: the question is, have the Liberals got it right. Just answer me one question, if you can take a break from playing party politics. Given that there are far more people looking for work than there are jobs available (no matter how well-educated or experienced you are), is unemployment going to be tackled effectively by getting people to apply for 40 jobs a month, and making sure they starve for 6 months while they're looking? I have 4 children: one unemployed, one working and 2 studying, so I'd really like you to tell me how Abbott's strategies are helping them. I await your answer.An independent, permanent, Tax Commission, an institution designed to be "beyond politics"": I love the idea, but one wonders how one could ensure such independence. Sure, staff it with experts in the financial field, but where do you find experts who aren't committed to one financial world view/philosophy or another? Prompted me to recall how judges in supreme court are appointed in the US: these are political appointments, with Republicans appointing conservative judges, and Democrats opting for reformists. The old political ploy: never set up a commission to explore an issue, unless you've stacked it to produce the answer you wanted to start with. Who would select the appointees/staff, and what would be the parameters for appointment, such that they were objective, not partisan? Secondly, what would be the brief and powers of said independent Commission? Would it merely be a think tank, charged with exploring options and models and coming up with recommended changes, or would it have the power to cut through the crap and say, "This is how it's going to be."?Ray, you do not speak for the nation. Give your praise where you will, but don't presume to speak for the rest of us.Employing a new budget sales team, without improving the product is a waste of time.Whilst one political fan club is telling us how wrong Abbott has got it, and the other side's barrackers are singing Abbott's praises, the fact remains that Abbott and co are in government for the next couple of years. Maybe both fan clubs should be spelling out how Abbott might lift his game, so that the country can flourish during his tenure. Sorry guys: just trying to be pragmatic."what I did notice was the amount of vitriol aimed at those with a different opinion.

This particular issue seems to bring out the worst in the regular posters."
Agreed, barsnax. What really amazes me is that such posters are so self-righteous in their rejection of anything resembling compassion. Their essential argument is that "we don't want them here, so they shouldn't come." I don't know why they don't simply say that and be done with it. What really galls me is that they claim to speak on behalf of the majority of Australians.
Maxine: Let me save you some time. In future, when addressing the refugee issue, simply write, "This country is mine: go and get yours somewhere else." See: only ten words and you're done. Glad to be of service."Each time Russia resorts to force, it will be portrayed as the villain by the civilised world." Define "civilised world". I suspect that you mean "the West'. In other words, you consider your tribe civilised, and countries you disapprove of you define as "barbaric". Please feel free to correct me if I'm wrong.Things haven't changed that much over the years. Many years ago, before the Internet dominated our lives, I applied to my local council for permission to extend my house. Within a month, I was receiving letters and phone calls from companies wanting to sell me insulation, guttering, roofing material etc. Yep: the council had sold my information to businesses, without my permission. The methods of data collection, storage and access may have changed, but the mining and use of information remains the same.Ravensclaw: Did you read the following?
 "In July, the head of the IMF, Christine Lagarde, noted:

    A degraded environment leads to a degraded economy. Environmental damage has macroeconomic implications, and implications for the design and impact of fiscal policy."

If you're discussing world economics at a summit, wouldn't it be logical to discuss factors which impact on world economics? Like climate change???Brief Comment: "The Labor party has a conflict of interest. It is up to the coalition to do it."
Er, I'll buy the claim that the ALP has a conflict of interest, being tied to unions, but the second statement is illogical. The Coalition also has a conflict of interest: it's anti-union, and predisposed to find fault with union activity.Ye gods! I find myself agreeing with you, aGuy! Yes, I can always trust Abbott &amp; Co to be dishonest. In fact, I can trust most politicians to be thus.  Duplicity and pure self-serving nastiness is not restricted to one party or the other. I also see honest, good intentions resulting in dangerous policies. When dealing with politicians, it is always wise to suspect the worst and, if possible, guard against it."something vindictive and obstinately childish": Well, this is where our political debate resides at the moment. Like football fans blindly supporting their respective teams and sledging the opposition, politicians, and many posters on this forum, automatically condemn anything proposed or achieved by members of "the other side". There is no "mature debate": just automatic praise or rejection. You can see it in some of the responses to Whitlam's demise. The usual suspects point to the perceived fiscal irresponsibility of Whitlam's government, and deny that the man achieved anything of merit, whilst others rush to declare his sainthood. Still, I am heartened by those who have acknowledged both Whitlam's flaws and failures, and his strengths and achievements. Balanced view anyone?aGuy: There is a difference between explanation on the one hand,  and justification and promotion. That being said, at least the process of using a top police talking head to add credibility to a politician's sales pitch can be seen as truth in politics. If you're promoting a police state, then using a police officer as a defacto politician is being up front with your agenda.Reinhard: Perhaps the next step is to draft teachers into Team Abbott. After all, the Chinese and Japanese have set a great precedent by prescribing the spin that their history curricula should take.Just as a matter of interest, aGuy, do you automatically support/defend every action and piece of legislation put forward by the Liberal Party, or are you prepared to assess them on a case by case basis, and point out any flaws you find? I'm just a tad worried about one-eyed Liberal and Labor supporters who frequent this forum. No wonder discussions are so partisan!Well, Zing, have you ever watched the film "V for Vendetta"? Let me rejig a bit of the dialogue for you:
?I know why you did it. I know you were afraid. Who wouldn't be? War, terror, disease. There were a myriad of problems which conspired to corrupt your reason and rob you of your common sense. Fear got the best of you, and in your panic you turned to the Prime Minister, Tony Abbott. He promised you order, he promised you peace, and all he demanded in return was your silent, obedient consent."
Far fetched? I think not. Freedom disappears by incremental steps, some so small they pass our notice. Democracy changes gradually, until we may wake up to find that it has morphed into something totally different, unrecognisable as the democracy we imagine we have.Oh dear, Zing. It would appear that you and I watched different versions of the film. Authoritarian government/dictatorship were definitely mentioned. The only thing I changed in the section of dialogue I quoted was the name of the authoritarian figure. It must be true that "A man hears what he wants to hear, and disregards the rest."This is the way the world ends: not with a bang, but with a whimper. (Apologies to T.S. Elliot) Freedom to exist unseen by big brother is almost gone already. Credit and debit cards, mobile phones, flyby cards, internet access: all leave a trail, like breadcrumbs through a forest, except, while breadcrumbs may decompose, the electronic variety lasts forever. 

When will cash payments for items be forbidden? Will Internet cafes be closed to prevent anonymous communication? Will gatherings of two or more unrelated people be cause for suspicion? 
Paranoid? Me? Sorry, folks, but the writing's on the electronic wall for all to see.Oh Lordy: "Is that this weeks position of the left??" 
I am continually bemused by those who believe that there are organised, identifiable groups called "the left" and "the right", and that all members of these supposed groups hold the same views at any given time. In reality, individuals hold diverse views and opinions, some of which might be ascribed to either left or right. Those who like their world view to be neat, tidy and simple try to squish people into clearly labelled pigeon holes. Sorry, squire: life isn't that simple.A patronising response, Peter, which fails to acknowledge my point that lumping people together in "left" and "right" categories is simplistic and indicative of lazy thinking. I reiterate that individuals can maintain a range of views on topics, some of which may fit the artificial left/right binary opposite categories, whilst others defy categorisation. I could simultaneously believe in the benefits of a capitalist economy and hold that American imperialism is a destructive force that should be opposed."The current escalation of Islamic violence is intrinsic to Islam". Nope! Sorry, GRF: I'm with Harvey on this one: "The ordinary people of the Middle East want peace. They want to send their kids to school and have working hospitals, they want to go to the shops without being killed. They don't really want to get on leaky boats to get away from the carnage, they want to grow oranges and make baklava."
Some of the posters here are so anti-Islam, that all they can do is demonise it. Your average Muslim, like your average Christian, Shintoist, Budhist or agnostic just wants to get on with things and have a good life. It's only the lunatic fringe that wants to spew bile and conquer the world.
Hmm. A clash of civilisations? Personally, wherever I look, I see the problem as one of lack of civilisation. If the US is considered by some as the leader of Western civilisation, then we're in deep poop!Well, it would appear that Barrie Cassidy is correct: the poisonous adversarial system he describes is replicated on this forum. Forget balanced, objective argument, forget giving credit where credit is due when it comes to a party you dislike: just slag the other team. Why, there is one poster here who has a pavlovian negative response to anything deemed to be on the (supposed) left of politics. He even believes that any criticism of Abbott's policies or strategies must be coming from "Labor stooges in the media." I won't mention this correspondent's name, since "Governments should do their best never to mention the Opposition leader's name in public if they can help it." The basic fact is that all politicians are involved in adversarial theatre: they all lie, and the majority fight for their own power, rather than the good of the country. Sometimes they produce good policy, sometimes bad. Why can't we just scrutinise both sides, highlighting their successes and failures, and suggesting how things could be improved?  Nah! We can't do that: it would require intelligent debate, which is no fun at all.1. Many of my friends in the medical profession are aghast re the co-payment for consultations, which, they assure me, would increase paparwork and undermine their relationship with clients
2. The GST is unchanged at present, but Abbott has been backing states into a corner with cuts to health and education, none too subtly pressuring them to ask for an increase in the GST.
3. Gonski is about improvements and equity in education for all: public and private school students: you address cost (make the nations finances goneski), but, strangely enough, say nothing about quality and equity.
4. A beautifully hair-splitting argument about "no new tax on petrol". Great: we keep the same tax, but fiddle with it to produce more revenue. 
5. "there are those of us who understand that it is Christianity which has provided the moral and ethical foundation for Western Democracy, and we think it is appropriate that it be taught in schools." Well, no: there are those of you who "believe" that this is the case. The moral and ethical foundations of our democracy would be equally served with reference to the other Abrahamic religions (Islam and Judaism) or Budhism, or any number of religious belief systems (if you must refer to superstitious world views). Still, we can't expose our children to other religious or humanistic perspectives, can we? It might prompt the end of civilisation as we know it.The Other John: "no real change in the good of the nation has ever, nor will it ever, come with only the support of one side of politics." 
I agree, John, and when the current government proposes a change that is good for the nation, I will gladly support it, and exhort my friends and relations to do so as well. Now here's the real challenge: What has he proposed so far that deserves my support, and that of all stripes of politics? 
Waiting.
Waiting.I'm well-aware of the definition of "progressive" in a political sense, but, whatever your political bent, it's still related to the word "progress". Are you suggesting that a publicly-funded media should not encourage progress by presenting an insight into world events and counter the spin of the profit-driven conservative press? My, what an unusual idea."No ones suggesting the necessary rules should be done away with, but each should be considered in the context that every regulation will reduce employment to some degree." It's a fine line we tread: too much regulation can discourage employment, whilst too little can lead to exploitation of workers at the whim of the employer. What is the minimum regulation we need in order to create the necessary balance?CJ22: The answer is simple: cheap, high quality tertiary education should be provided on a merit-based basis. If you don't have a high enough year 12 score, you don't get into university. Having taught university bridging courses to adult re-entry students, I also highly recommend the provision of such courses at high schools. They bring students up to speed with academic essay structures, referencing and research skills, and quickly detect those who have the ability to handle the academic rigor required in any university course. If students are sinking at year 12, they will drown at university and should not be admitted."Tony Abbott's recent consideration of GST hikes' 
"Recent"?? You've got to be joking! Abbott has had this in mind ever since his election, if not before. Financial cuts to the states were clearly designed to steer state governments toward asking for an increase in the GST. Abbott is well aware that all states must agree to this for it to happen, and has tried to make it appear that it is not his idea but theirs. Not exactly subtle pressure has been applied and we're supposed to blame the states for any future GST increases, rather than blaming Abbott? Just how thick does Abbott think we are?The problem with the electoral system lately can be found in the choices we are asked to make. I would contend that we do not have even two sides in politics: we simply have two alternative brands of the same product. It's a bit like being told we can only choose between Ford and Holden, when many of us would prefer a Volvo or a VW. The only difference I can see between Liberal and Labor at the moment is that the Liberals openly state that they are centre-right, while members of the Labor party pretend that they are left of centre. The Labor Party lost its values somewhere along the way, compromising so much to get elected that it's now a poor copy of the Liberals.This is not an "either/or" situation: either we have cause for fear, or we don't. The threat of terrorism is real, but the hysteria whipped up by Abbott is counter-productive for everyone except Abbott and his government. Much of the problem is associated with the simplistic term "terrorism". Disaffected youth, often associated with crime and mental illness, focus on IS to give themselves a sense of power and control. In another place, at another time, they might have joined the Nazi party, the KKK, a bikie gang or a political party. There will always be nutters, but now we empower them by calling them terrorists. Get rid of IS and Al Quaeda, and the nutters will still be with us: they'll just join/form some other organisation."Australia's tiny contribution": Interesting that you should mention China. Australia contributes to the problem in two ways: 1. We use large amounts of coal here in Oz.
2. We export larger amounts to China. 
The funny thing about greenhouse gasses is that it doesn't matter which country they're produced in: they still impact on the global problem.Gough and his government changed the course of my life. He ended conscription, at a time when my marble had come up, gave us a first class health system, and allowed this working class boy to gain a university education. Much of his legacy remains, but where is social justice now? Today's crop of politicians, Liberal and Labor, tell us we can't afford kindness. Gough knew that the true test of a society can be seen not in how it treats its winners and heroes, but in how it treats those most in need.aGuy: I'll have to assume that you also wish to tackle young people wearing "hoodies" and dark glasses and, for good measure, anyone wearing facial hair, or women wearing wigs and dark glasses. These are obviously designed to allow people to hide their identities and must be stamped out.Redfish: Please don't use this as an excuse for political point-scoring. A death is a death, whether it's "collateral damage" or intentional. The same suffering follows.A hypothetical situation: All media outlets are provided with information that ASIO has tampered with information on computers owned by suspects, in order to ensure convictions.  Most outlets decide to publish this revelation and be damned. The information goes viral. Would the government prosecute all who revealed the information, effectively shutting down our media, as often happens in countries ruled by totalitarian regimes? My, my: civil disobedience in Australia. Wouldn't that be something?Totally agree, Redfella: If you love a country, you want it to be the best it can be. That means you have an obligation to highlight and address its flaws, as well as celebrating its strengths."Patriotism is nothing to be ashamed of." That all depends on how you define patriotism. If it's simply love for and loyalty to one's country, I'll agree with you. When it morphs into an arrogant assertion that "I'm better than anyone from any other country because I'm Australian", then there's a lot wrong with it. Reminds me of the old British observation:" Remember, my son, that you were born English, and have thus won first prize in the lottery of life." Or the US equivalent: "There are only two types of people in this world: Americans, and those who want to be Americans.""most taxpayers that fund the ANU prefer that their taxpayer dollars are invested wisely" Let's assume for a minute that you're correct: after all, you've done the research I assume and determined what "most taxpayers" want. The question then arises: what is "wisely"? For me, the wise investment is the ethical one.If you wish to be morally bankrupt, Albo, you're welcome to do so. The fact is that ethical, socially responsible investments are making money, AND helping society and the environment at the same time.
I'm a tad confused by your post, gbe. The article discusses asylum seekers, not immigrants. It asks that the political spin be taken out of the discussion: emotive and inaccurate terms such as "country shoppers" and "illegal immigrants" do not facilitate objective discussion, or lead to long-term solutions. It clearly demonstrates that it is not illegal to come to Australia to ask for asylum. (Not "demand".) It canvasses the idea of a new form of TPV, pointing out that granting of asylum does not mean provision of a permanent home in Australia. It also makes the obvious but often ignored point that countries should be addressing the causes for people fleeing their countries to seek asylum, rather than simply dealing with the results. Given your long-demonstrated antipathy toward the arrival of asylum seekers on our shores, I would have thought you'd welcome an article that seeks a long-term solution."Which part of the word directly do you not understand?"
Sorry, John, but your information is out of date and incorrect:
"Although the Refugee Convention says they must come directly from a territory where their life or freedom is threatened (as opposed to ?skipping through? a country like Indonesia), the 2001 Geneva Expert Round Table organised by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees concluded that:
Refugees are not required to have come directly from territories where their life or freedom was threatened?  Article 31(1) was intended to apply, and has been interpreted to apply, to persons who have briefly transited other countries or who are unable to find effective protection in the first country or countries to which they flee.? (p.2, 10b, 10c)"
A sensible, objective analysis of the problem! It certainly pinpoints the need for something we have not had from either Labor or Liberal politicians: positive leadership driving asylum seeker policy that is "ahead of public opinion." (Especially when negative public opinion with regard to asylum seekers has been created and nurtured by successive governments, purely for political gain.)whogoesthere: Whilst I agree with you that honesty/openness with regard to policies is admirable, it seems to be beyond the ability of your average, or in our case, below average politicians. Labor, Liberal, PUP, they're all the same: they will say or do anything to get elected, then forget who they're supposed to serve (the voters) and simply serve themselves. How about a pre-election election, in which a raft of potential candidates  is put forward in each electorate, and the voters get to select those they deem most trustworthy? At the moment, we're stuck with the candidates that the party selects, and, by and large, they ain't pretty!Yeah, mate, it is appeasement: appeasing the rednecks in our population who are poised to turn on other Australians because they follow the Muslim faith. This fear of "the other" is ridiculous. 
"By taking responsibility it becomes our problem. It shouldn't be. It's not our fault." It is "our" fault if we treat our fellow Australians as unwelcome, because they follow a faith that some of us mistakenly associate with terrorism.Islam: "a set of beliefs and ideals that anyone, who chooses to ignore science and reason, can adopt"??? So the mathematics that we use didn't really originate in the Middle East? When valuable scientific and medical information was lost in Europe, it was not really preserved in Islamic universities and reintroduced to Europe? So the teachings in the Q'ran that exhort Muslims to enquire and learn aren't really there? Sheesh, you have a lot to learn, amigo.Teachers in private schools have always had to conform to a dress code. Students who attend such schools are also required to conform to a dress code: it's called a uniform. The nature of code may change, but it's still there. If you are unhappy with this code, don't work there and don't enrol your children there. It's that simple.You may assert "false equivalence", but that does not make it so. It is merely your belief, unaccompanied by valid argument. The reasons for cultural attire are irrelevant. If my employer demands that I wear a suit and tie as part of the conditions of my employment, then I either wear them or select another job."when it comes to our institutions they are all British based." So what? I'm British born, which means I'm probably Germanic(Angles, Saxons and Jutes) Celtic, Scandinavian (Vikings), French (Normans) and Italian (Romans), not to mention my Russian father. My family's cultural norms probably differ from yours markedly, but I'm still Australian. As a mark of respect I should remove cultural attire when I enter Parliament or court? Heaven help us, there might still be nuns in this country who wear habits!(Catholic burqas). Besides, the xenophobes of this country would have people dressing to their dictates wherever they are in Australia. What a load of twaddle! Watch out for the elderly Mediterranean ladies wearing headscarves and clad in black!"that doesn't justify denigrating our current government". I actually think that it is pointless to denigrate the current government. They do it well enough themselves. In terms of quality of governance, this mob is as bad as the last Labor crew.Disunity isn't death unless it's public. As the article points out, you can have as much disagreement as you like behind closed doors: just don't let the rest of the country know about it.If all the government has to do to get carte blanche on legislation is to cry "national security", then we're all stuffed. The job of any opposition is to challenge and test the validity of government actions, such that flaws and dangers associated with them can be exposed and rectified. If oppositions only engage in challenges that might  score them political points, then significant checks and balances in the parliamentary process are thrown away.So, you're a climate scientist are you, Amber? You've checked the findings of the 99% of experts who say we have a problem, and, in your expert opinion, they've got it wrong. Congratulations.
"It would be nice to have a reputable climate skeptic scientist on the ABC but then it would be too easy to discredit climate alarmism." The problem with this hope of yours is that the terms "reputable" and "climate skeptic scientist" are mutually exclusive. Sorry.Since I am not a climate scientist, I am forced to form my opinion on the basis of expert findings. Since 99% of climate scientists find that human activity is responsible for damaging climate change and acidification of the oceans, I support action to reduce that type of human activity. The clincher for me is the fact that the few "scientists" who deny the existence of human induced climate change invariably turn out to be employed by big business (usually fossil fuel business) that has a vested interest in the status quo. 
On the other hand, climate change deniers on this forum, who are also not climate scientists, claim with absolute conviction that deforestation and the burning of fossil fuels has no impact on the world's climate. For proof, they point to a few dodgy scientists at the fringe of the debate, or refer to other non-scientists such as Andrew Bolt, or anecdotal evidence that proves nothing."The bill explicitly states that powers exercised under this Act are not invalid if inconsistent with Australia?s international obligations."     
"It is irrelevant whether Australia has non-refoulement obligations" 

Interesting! We have experts in Public Law pointing out that our government wishes to enact legislation that will put it in breach of Australia's legal obligations. I can just imagine the howls of derision by the usual suspects, posters who see every criticism of Abbott's refugee policies as evidence of some left-wing conspiracy. Yes, we'll have comments about country shoppers, illegals, economic migrants, queue jumpers and people who are incompatible with Australia's culture.OK reaver, let's get real. If the current government has no intention of abiding by the UN Refugee Convention that Australia both signed and later ratified, then it should have the intestinal fortitude to front up and withdraw from said convention. If you're going to be a callous, self-serving political pragmatist , then don't pretend that you're abiding by international humanitarian niceties. The only thing I would say if Abbott finally decided to be honest is that he will not be doing it in my name.Wonderful strategy! Add superfluous laws to create the illusion that you're doing something meaningful to combat terrorism. Makes you appear dynamic, when you're really acting like a headless chook.
