Tom1, you are dead right to say that using deaths at sea to defend the policy is insincere. At the height of the crisis parliament was sitting and Gillard asked the LNP to discuss it with her. It never happened. I recall one retiring Labour politician last year saying some individuals actually got exited when a boat went down because they knew they were scoring points. Turns my stomach to think there are people in Canberra like that.Freddie, if we had a better policy of immigration in general over the last 15yrs instead of the education scam that Howard fostered, we could have taken in many, many more people on a humanitarian basis. If we had a much higher level of humanitarian intake we could justify to a greater degree the harsh deterrents we have unfortunately had to resort to. Perhaps we could have a % target of annual immigration.Ivan, Chris Berg from the IPA wrote a piece recently advocating open borders. His rationale was that it will solve world poverty. He went so far as to say that he advocates 'much, much higher levels of immigration' here and now. No mention of the downsides though and no detail on why it will work. He conveniently glossed over both. I think he is really just talking about cheap labour.

Both major parties seem to  advocate a 'Big Australia', yet propose no plan nor encourage public debate. If we continue on, to quote one expert on the subject 'life here will just get grubbier and meaner'.The mantra of 'Stop the Boats' had been in full swing well before the tragedies occurred. They begun echoing the public after the fact. For what it's worth, I believe Labour should never have offered an alternate policy as we had only 2 people in detention at the end of Howards tenure. 

If this government is truly humanitarian surely an increase in genuine refugee intake would be on the policy agenda.Correction Debunker. A significant amount of low income earners pay little 'income tax'. They pay GST though. They also contribute to the economy by generating revenue and profit for their employers.

If this is nearly the ultimate wealth distribution scheme, why is the divide between the haves and have nots increasing? Maybe those workers who 'pay no tax' should ask for a pay rise.

Kennedys famous statement nonetheless is a relevant as ever.Jungle Boy, did you read or hear Yunupingus address at the Garma festival? In it he said (roughly) "Tony Abbott is not here. He said he was going to come, but he isn't here". A polite and diplomatic way of saying he broke a promise perhaps.Forrest and his wife have committed to giving half their wealth to philanthropic causes during their life. They are behind a campaign to end world slavery and they have a daughter committed to charitable work. They gave a massive donation to a WA university. Don't forget, he helped out after the Victorian bushfire tragedy . Curiously, his Wikipedia biography lists Kevin Rudd as a friend. That he is genuine in wanting to improve the lot of indigenous people should not be questioned IMO. I know a long time mine worker who found him down to earth and honest.

He is currently brokering a major agribusiness deal with the Chinese which goes far beyond any benefits his cattle property would receive. Don't forget that our initial prosperity was from agricultural export and we lack diversity of income. I think the good far outweighs the bad if you hold him up to scrutiny. 

There is little point in alluding to facts, why didn't you mention them instead of the sweeping criticism and comparison to Rinehart?Brian, your reasoning is exactly why this government is up the creek, they think the public can be led by the nose.I have a question. We have a nationwide housing shortage, rents are running at an historically high % of income. Yet Glen Stevens is in a dilemma over whether to cool the housing market and construction sector. He also publically suggests that young people would be better off renting. Isn't this a housing crisis no matter how you view it? Am I missing something here?

How does the fuel get to the mine site? What about company vehicles that go to and from town? What about the exploration phase? Do you think CSG work is done on a closed site? A lot of it is for diesel powered generators btw.

Unlike farming, miners make Super Profits ( over and above what is a good return for shareholders). To argue for keeping it is defending your right as a taxpayer to give them $178 every year.

It is time this subsidy went.The difference between success and failure in business is 10%. Even less in politics. Throw in the pernicious influence of the shock jocks and the flow-on effect of what they disseminate and, well 'Bob's your Uncle'. I wonder if Ruperts middle name is Bob?Greg, Norway has come into the mix as an example of good policy and forward planning in the interests of the people. It is ironic that we are borrowing money from them IMO. Regarding MH17, I think we should have asked Holland how we could back them up/ help.The front page of the SMH endorsed the LNP on election day last year in bold type. It was Fairfax journalists who exposed the corruption in the NSW Labour govt.Tabloid politics? If any evidence was required that the LNP embraces this I would like to remind y'all that Abbott launched an inquiry into the alleged bias of the ABC. The verdict? Now, consider the tabloid coverage of the accusation and the coverage of the findings of the inquiry. Yes, the game is all about perception.

Want further evidence of this? An incoming LNP senator used his maiden speech in Parliament to advocate the abolition of the ABC. What is this mans vision for Advancing Australia Fair? Unrepresentative swill?APM, a little reminder that it was a 4 Corners story that exposed the extent of the people smuggling racket. You can't make a judgement of the ABC based mostly on what gets posted on these forums or Drum articles themselves. I think there is substance to parts of your argument but I don't agree with you about the Telegraph, it is a disgrace. You have made no mention of talkback radio either, a glaring omission.

Those complaining about the media being used as a tool to influence public opinion are correct IMO. And if the ABC is by the Left, for the Left then stand easy, preaching to the converted is no way to influence opinion. 

I doubt anyone gets all their posts past the moderator for one reason or another. I've had posts about asylum seekers rejected myself. The trick is to identify the boundary you crossed and try to make your point differently. It's a bit churlish to complain about the referee.I would like to raise a point here about job agencies. Enterprising job seekers have much less an idea of what is really out there because of the middle man role. The middle man decides who the job applicants will be. In some rural districts the majority of jobs are completely hidden and it is only by ending up on the dole that you are even in the ballpark. The agency will then attempt to place an individual based more on what will satisfy the criteria set out by the govt than on individual merit, ie; the long termed unemployed or special needs. In other words stand in line and wait while we literally dole it out. It needs improving IMO.You haven't factored in the payment of residual debt or the time lost during the period of ownership. This can add up to a substantial period of ones working life. Almost nobody starts a business with no assets or money of their own being invested ( making the whole thing a bit silly in the first place), so once the debts are cleared or bankruptcy is over you are still behind your original starting point and older, less bright eyed and bushy-tailed and without super for that period. If the business succeeds you are still likely to be no better off than if you had a decent job all along.

More businesses fail than succeed, it has been that way for a long time. This is a fact not an anecdote or a theory.You are right, I've been there and am doing that. Worked my backside off too.I made a post further up about rural jobs. They are already being doled out. And a brief mention about harvest work. It is seasonal, your income will depend on  the weather and it is now heavily dominated by 457 workers and agencies that preference them. The fruit picking argument turned full circle 5 years ago. 

Too many on the dole? Maybe a review of 457 policy would be a good idea.If you live more than 50 or so kms from the farm, the fuel plus wear and tear on the car takes half your pay. Bad luck if it rains in the arvo. Everyone loves it when grapes are $2 a kilo in the shops though.The other John, unemployment is lowest in the cities.  Free swags for every dole bludger! start walking.Algernon, you say, 'Incompetent and out of their depth'. I say shallow, uncaring and selfish.

 In your last paragraph you say what I think.

A significant portion of swinging voters are those products of 'the swinging sixties', which overlapped into the early 70's. There was a popular song around then, 'Once bitten, twice shy!'Egg, hi, I am a bit gobsmacked that you say Lang Hancock and Caesescu were friends. That guy was a monster, right up there with Stalin etc... It makes the mind boggle, although there is little merit in clang associations or knee jerk speculation. 

Caesescu is a classic example of a person who was never fit to rule because he was a sick man. His own family life parallels the damage he did to his country. In this era of corporations becoming larger than national economies it is increasingly pertinent for citizens to ask "Who sits on the board? Who owns this company? Who is this person?"  Examples must be set by those at the top if citizens are expected to play the game. 

Back to the article, if a financial adviser told the average person to put all their eggs in one basket instead of maintaining some diversity many would say he was a dill, or was playing you for a mug. Our second rate political culture is the real culprit. A liberal Senator wore a tshirt in the House last week given to him by a coal company to goad the opposition. What a grub! Some think it is just a game.Grumpy, regarding Keating, it was the venom of his scare campaign that got him over the line against Hewson too. And it is the venom of Abbotts Carbon tax and liar campaign against Gillard that is being thrown back in his face. One of my favourite broken election promises was '1 million more  solar homes and 25 solar towns'. He even promised funding for an upgrade to Warringah oval after funding and final approval had been given by the State gov't. Respect? Nobody respects a carpetbagger.I've tried to like Abbott during his career but the strategy he  embraced and the way he went on in parliament against Gillard made me hate him. I never thought I would hate a politician so much. Despise is a better word.13.5% of Australians live below the poverty line. It has quietly increasing for years now. Considering it occurred during 20yrs of economic growth, the blame lies with governments. This government has chosen to ignore this completely.They are empty threats too. Many clients choose Australian mining products because of our stability as a nation. Australian mines are also the most efficient on the planet.Hi Egg, I view it the same way. At least they didn't get control of the senate.Was this itinerant labouring?Chris Berg from the IPA is of the opinion that the government needs to "hit the reset button". Even this right wing spokesman acknowledges that many budget measures are unpopular.I live 300k south of Orange. We have 2 suppliers, there prices are virtually identical. Everyone that still has a fireplace has gone back to burning wood. Just to be connected is $3.60/day. Power companies  increased charges for street lighting to local councils by 108% just this week. Council says it will cost $28k and it will have to come from the road maintenance budget, then a rate increase. The price of gas has doubled in under 3 years.G'day Barry.  Joe doesn't deserve all the blame. As you pointed out, Abbott ruled out many sensible options when campaigning. Given that this government gifted miners and other major companies a windfall by repealing the carbon tax, perhaps he should ask for some in return.GST? Petrol tax? Everyone pays tax in one form or another. Darn those pensioners and low income earners, not worth a 457 most of em.Thank you Punch, a very impressive post!. I'm heartened to hear that Fraser has a low opinion of them. How dare they use such divisive terms as 'lifters and leaners'. Btw, I worked for several months at St Johns 12 years ago, and without going into detail, was not particularly impressed with what I saw. 
Bring on the next election.
We have had a nationwide shortage of rental accommodation for a decade and currently have a property market with more investors than new buyers. How is negative gearing impacting on this in a positive way?You seem to be inferring that the more contact a Muslim has with Westerners, the more radical and unhinged they become. This would have manifested itself in escalating violence and terror attacks in many countries in recent times, but it hasn't. 

Migrants of all cultures and races have been shown to have slightly higher rates of mental illness for a long time and in many countries. It is due to culture shock. The problem is not "much wider", it is confined to a very small % of Muslim Australians.

Being in turn "uncompromising" will achieve??????TC, I would like to remind/inform you that Glenn Stevens(Reserve Bank chief),is of the opinion that the main contributing factor to the 'budget crisis' were overly generous cuts to income tax during Howards tenure. Secondary were falls in revenue after the GFC. I voted for Howard myself more than once and hindsight is a wonderful thing, but there was a lack of forward planning during his time. That said, he would be preferable to this lot any day. I don't recall Howard throwing darts at any section of the community or causing division, probably why he lasted so long.Let them eat dust! I thought Ricky Muir put it well today.And rural people, who earn less and have few public transport options already pay more for fuel (and groceries, and electricity). Costs of goods and services will then rise because of increased freight costs.Fortunately for this government rural people who will be affected more than others tend to live in safe, conservative held electorates. Ironically a good proportion know well the downside of living in a safe seat, you get the brush-off sometimes.Rudd and Gillard had no issue with 457 workers either. Sure they reacted to the outcry over the Roy Hill project, but nothing happened. The employment ministry actually expanded the list of jobs (air stewards for one) that we supposedly can't do. Seems both sides think foreign workers are desirable.
6.4% is too many, anything over 5 is cause for concern. Maybe it's time 457s and immigration levels in general were reviewed. Shorten should have been at the govt over their negative approach to employment.We did have a bunch of guys convicted of planning to attack Holsworthy army barracks. They also reconnoitred Lucas Heights. Anyway, it looks like a political distraction (Don't mention the budget, or ICAC, shhsh.) imho.

The IPA could be talking about their new bias survey of the ABC and their desire to sell it instead of this. Sounds like a covert plot!"Thy God is a vengeful God". "Turn the other cheek". Apparently we,  as a species are hardwired to behave in the ways that the ten commandments recommend. This is subject to not being corrupted during our childhood/life.

I am just relating some thoughts from a highly regarded psychoanalyst, she made much more sense than any religious instruction I received at school.That's funny.Lauren, why do you say people are cringing? I say it is groaning. Bad taste and bad judgement are just that. You can't gloss over the sexist element of  what she said ("and I don't need him to speak either") by implying a double standard that doesn't exist. This is about a politician with 5 minutes experience who seems to enjoy the limelight to an unhealthy degree and who shot her mouth into her foot.
She stuffed up, some of them do now and again. Just admit it, so what if she is a woman.

The groaning and backlash is about perceived failings on the social and intellectual level, mostly the social level. She wasn't elected to be allocated 15 minutes of fame. I don't want any politicians opinion on what size anatomy they find desirable. Don't defend her by telling the groaners they are dinosaurs.Dapsta, Palmer is no overnight politician. He is from the 'JOH for PM' school and is a wily and Machiavellian SOB. Don't  drop your guard when Palmer is about. Trust me, I'm not a politician(smile!).

Trust should be earned, not given. 

People in life, including LNP leaders will try and play you for a fool. Don't drop your guard.Did Harvard test a control group of diverse but intelligent people or factor in egoists and/or the personality disordered? Was success in ones prior field or a positive reference part of the criteria? The issue is 'quality'.I agree that increased education and awareness would help, including refresher courses. Journalists and shock jocks who cultivate  adversarial attitudes are irresponsible. Driving in traffic tries everyones patience, does anyone actually enjoy it? So to vent your frustration on a cyclist is just a lazy way of venting. Having driven taxis and also raced bikes from a young age I know ad well as anyone that the cyclists who jump crossings and red lights are dreadful ambassadors, but I also had clubmates who lost their lives through absolutely no fault of their own, including a teenager who was a great lad.

Even if you choose to hate on cyclists remember that serious injury and death are result of many car v bike incidents. Noboby owns the road.

Bulldust is what the manufactured controversy that became known as climategate was/is. This old chestnut has made a comeback lately and it doesn't seem to make any difference how often it is shot down to clowns like you who insist on continuing to trot it out. 

It was a smear campaign involving the hacking of university computers and a few email conversations were distorted and used out of context. Climate denialist websites first disseminated it. " Why is nothing happening yet?" came the question from a server in Saudi Arabia (traced by British police) to the denialist site in the US 12 days after the hacking. "Don't worry, it's about to".  

And so the campaign to discredit, distort, distract and stall continues.

Denialists, distinct from sceptics also fall into 2 categories, honest but erroneous in their belief and the morally bankrupt. Which camp are you in?Bulldust, I am quoting news articles and facts. Don' t set your own rules for debate.


The hack was from Russia, hackers are often near impossible to trace. You know that. The police tried, the trail went cold. Eight separate enquiries found no evidence of scientific misconduct. That there has been and continues to be a well funded campaign to influence public opinion is a well documented fact. Do you want me to start quoting the New York Times?Evan, those people are advocates of action on climate change. Do you honestly think you validate your opinion my employing mockery?

You also misquoted the blogger you mocked. I know offhand of one 'graduate' btw, Andrew Lamming MD (Lib). You've dished up a word salad. Bon appetite!Rusty, the majority of the money loaned by the CEFC is private money.  The return last year was 7%. Some of the projects are agricultural( farmers, greenies, what's the difference!). Any existing business that can reduce their emissions or electricity consumption by half by upgrading or renewing their equipment are eligible. R&amp;D is just part of it.

Those with the fewest facts often have the strongest opinion.G'day Olive. A bit of budget trivia you may find amusing. Funding for the proposed direct action plan was cut by $1B. I know little of direct action either, time for some homework.That donation was from Graeme Watson the CEO of wotif. His money, not the companies. The Greens don't accept any donations from corporations. Palmer sits in second place with his 2008/9 donations to the LNP.Gunns went into receivership and not because of pressure from the Greens or legislative changes. He didn't buy that land to exploit it. I've voted for conservative politicians on several occasions so don't lump me in the partisan category.Professor Ian Lowe published a book covering all the issues of population growth in Australia (Bigger or Better?, UQ press). An immigration rate of 70,000/yr is advocated. The vicious circle of infrastructure spending is explained in surprisingly simple terms.Hi Mike. I've looked into the global population issue recently and have a few figures for you to contemplate. Currently growth is 1.1% pa. The rate of growth peaked in 1989. Current growth is 75 million. Increased longevity due to improved medical science is a significant factor. High rates of growth are in the poorest regions(Africa and Nth Pakistan).

So, whilst I personally believe that a smaller global population is desirable I don't see it as the elephant in the room. Given that birth rates are higher in the poorest regions, alleviating poverty appears to be a major way to control population growth. Remember, AGW and emissions/pollution are about economic growth and high standards of living, not just more people. I know there is a paradox there but provided we learn to lower our carbon footprint it can be dealt with. Cheers.You conveniently failed to mention Sth Koreas emission reduction and renewable energy targets.Sleepy, good point. The governments own modelling suggests emissions will rise and this modelling agrees with 5 other studies by private entities.I tend to think 'the sensible middle ground' is a desire for better quality discussion and honesty/transparency instead of what we currently have. That and civility. The vitriol etc... repels a lot of people and drags things down in general. I Wish I could articulate this better.
Palmer did well today. His company Queensland Nickel paid $8m in carbon tax last year, now nil.The head of the Reserve Bank stated recently that the hole in the budget was caused by Howards income tax cuts, but I learned that from the ABC so it's probably biased reporting.Lily, I guess those who set the comments section up thought it would be a lot more productive than it is. It's nastier than usual today. Chin up.

I think it reflects very poorly on the character of the people who have chosen to put the boot into you. Ugly Australians.

Don't forget that she is the Environment editor, not a political reporter.I think this article is meant to be a bit of light reading. I found it amusing and a pretty good piece of writing.Thanks eggman, very illuminating. This post should be near the top. Your comments about moral failings remind of comments made by Robert Pirsig. He believes corporations are socially irresponsible and the main barrier presently to social evolution is a lack of truth. He also pointed out (in 1991) that society had coarsened since the end of the Victorian era and that things would become worse before they became better.Tomtoot, Michael McCormick, member for the Riverina actually had a couple of workshops in his electorate to explain to farmers what to expect medium and long term from climate change. The old people are very rusted on but strangely enough it is not uncommon to hear people lament the downside of living in a safe electorate, no need to buy votes (it took 20yrs to get an upgrade to Wagga hospital and Gillard finally approved it). Some crops are already less suitable(grapes, apples) and cereal crops will be diminished in hotter years. It is on NSW agriculture website.

People are pretty complacent more than anything else but you have to also realise that country people are not used to such sophistry and lies, they think people are honest like themselves.Tomtoot, almost forgot to tell you that the Labour candidate was not much chop this time (another union hack) and McCormick's pedigree would impress most people. I know quite a few people who voted Green with preferences to National, sounds funny. I wonder if there is regional data on senate voting? Lastly, many people listen to the radio and get a daily dose of Jones and Hadlee. Climate change is not a hot topic lately, everyone is scrutinising Palmer, most warily.Those ideas are called hypotheses. The stock market did not have any correlations with climate science last time I looked.Peter, how do you reckon the assertion that 'climategate' proved a conspiracy by scientists would hold up in court? 

Climategate was an infamous smear campaign timed to coincide with the Copenhagen conference in 2009. Computers at East Anglia university were hacked and remarks made in a handful of emails from the thousands were used out of context to infer corruption.
Eight separate inquiries found no evidence of fraud or scientific misconduct. The same stunt was done in the USA, they found even less to distort. What these two events demonstrated was that espionage was employed as part of an organised campaign to distract and discredit.

Computer models are unreliable? More rubbish. The are used in many fields of science and are set up to deliver conservative results. Computer models do use "real temperatures" because temperature and other recorded data is put into the computer. A computer cannot 'make a prediction' unless it has the data from the past. It has not been uncommon for data to exceed the predictions of the models, not vise-versa.Hindcasting is the input of known previous data.  What makes you an expert? You claim to know that "every single one of them is running hot", why?  Your reference to God does not give your emotional response gravity. Read your comment again and look for the point at which you contradicted yourself. You are not an expert, please don't pretend to be.You would also need to factor in all the households who have gone solar in recent years and factor in energy efficient light globes and appliances and people becoming more frugal with electricity use due to higher prices (elasticity of demand). Also gas usage. Please state this significant component of industry that has been driven offshore but please don't confuse it with those affected by the high dollar.

If you believe you know how to do superior analysis to current experts, do the nation a favour and offer your services.Greig, you are interpreting the facts. The warming trend has slowed due to decreased solar activity. The correlation between co2 and temperature is due to two factors, global dimming( proven by worldwide falls in pan evaporation rates) and absorbtion of heat by the oceans. Have you ever heard of the term 'map to ground'? Basically it means that one can interpret a map incorrectly because of incorrect observation OR a lack of objectivity.Greig, good to hear from you and to better understand your point of view. I acknowledged a slowing in the trend, not a pause and I form my opinions by following what the scientists say on a couple of sites as well as the ACF. What we most need is some global cooperation and less politicising of the issue and effective mitigation can be achieved. I am ambivalent in regards to nuclear as they take a long time bring online among other things, but thorium is interesting. Harnessing fission is still a physicists fantasy  unfortunately. In Australia I feel we need to go with a mix of renewables and new technology, Imagine the hysteria if nuclear power was seriously mooted by a government, this issue would pale in comparison.

The world can't get enough electricity and everyone deserves to have it.  It is one of humankinds great  achievements. We just need to lower our carbon footprint over the next twenty years. It can be done, it is already happening as you know and we will get better at it. We need a timely transition, not a radical one and we need vested interests to stop running interference. Cheers.Greig, I am a member of neither and I do not know what either of these acronyms stand for. I am however a contributor to the Australian Conservation Foundation (established 50 + years ago by scientists), perhaps you now appreciete better why I challenge those who ate loose with facts.  I comment as a concerned citizen and nothing else. Nothing else in your post compels me to respond.Gday prison, I just messed up by thinking I was replying to Greig. Apologies to both of you. Prison, I admire your posts.Tell the science community, fast.It cuts both ways. Your remark is based purely on an assumption. I had never encountered the terms 'leftie' or tory' untill I began to read the comments on this site, no shortage of cracked pots and stereotypical supporters.
Good article Quentin, how about those who grease the palms get some goal time too.Well Said. Don't forget about 'secret' trade talks either.Hi Susan. I agree with you. It is more important that they are not persuaded by 'moral bankrupts' than they possess a towering intellect. High IQ and education does not directly correlate with good ethics/morality or a balanced personality.  Are they 'good people' who can spot a conjob is my concern. Policy formulation is the lot of the best lobbyists and lower house leaders. I have concerns about a couple of them but yes, it can't be worse.In my opinion, what many are now calling boganism used to be called inverted snobbery. Many 'bogans' are really just good old fashioned 'dags'. Quality of life is more about social aspects than a satisfactory intellectual environment for even the smartest of us.

The LNP/Murdoch dog whistle  alludes to  'the Left' having become too clever and the Right just a good old-fashioned, down to earth lot. The bogans I know (both categories) seem to be more annoyed than disappointed currently. A case of once bitten twice shy?

It is the exploitation and manipulation of people for political means that is a problem. Bogans are not noted for moral bankruptcy or an opportunistic sense of entitlement to the degree that political 'players' can be. S*#* travels downhill, not up.JAL, Illuminating in an historical context but I disagree you. The senate more than ever functions as a house of checks and balances. A degree of continuity is very important. Too much change too fast is a well known recipe for disaster. 

Our current political culture magnifies my point. Checks and balances.Crusher, Lambie...hmm.. She seems to be saying 'look at moi'. I hope she doesn't think that being loud and aggressive is a positive trait. She definitely has an ego.Isn't it more the role of a senator to pass judgement on a policy than to form it? That we have a diverse cross bench is cause for optimism in my opinion. Btw, Glen Lazarus was reduced to tears when he found out he was over the line.Zing, war/conflict is not celebrated in our culture. You make a lot of assumptions as to what form this recognition may take. As for legalities, the Mabo decision recognised that the continent was not terra nullis. Moreover, any legalities or definitions are completely irrelevant, especially in the historical context. It happened, it is history, it deserves recognition.You are wrong. It started before any police force was formed.  The redcoats (the British Army) were initially at a disadvantage and suffered quite a few casualties. You are inventing facts to suit your position. I am relating documented facts.Stupidity or ignorance? Think resentment and indignation and you may start to get the picture.

Perhaps it doesn't look like much of a war to you because you don't know much about it.There was an organised resistance during the early days of settlement. There was a campaign of guerrilla war, led by Pemulwuy. There is no shortage of written references to it and him. Farmers at Parramatta had crops burnt in a systematic way and many homesteads came under siege. Prior to that the focus was on army expeditions. It ran for over a decade. Some recognition is deserved.Australia was developed, not formed by our ancestors. There is no "if" as to whether there was organised resistance. A traitor is someone who changes allegiance. This nation contained groups of people long before the first fleet arrived.Pemulwuy mobilised his and three other tribes.Criticism seems to be the main component of political articles and the comments that follow. Will it mature over time is one question.Andrew Laming had a piece published here 2 weeks ago about indigenous policy. It contained a lengthy criticism of Labour and Shorten, but nothing about policy.

It is very hard to cut through the noise. Sometimes the noise is deliberately orchestrated to stifle constructive dialogue. Sophistry and empty rhetoric are tools of trade presently, particularly from the right.JohnM, The evidence began to mount in the 1980s. Your persistent posts, which always include emotive language and sweeping dismissals using barely plausible statements amount to a mantra. References to organisations such as the geologic society and the Australian environmental foundation ( both of which are funded by vested interests and regarded as fake bodies by those who take an interest in AGW), strongly indicate that you are either on someone's payroll or a crackpot.He broke a contract with his employer, pure and simple. The rationale of the author is as boring and pretentious as. Pseudo intellectual claptrap.Germany produces 26% of it's electricity from renewables. The have a target of 60% by 2050. If they weren't shutting down their nuclear industry they would be using bugger all.Co2 will increase agricultural production will it? You reckon you know  more than not only climatologists but agronomists too? Where is the extra soil nutrient going to come from and how will increased evaporation rates be compensated for? Whoops, I forgot that climate change is crap.Do you get your data from any other sources?


The head of the Reserve Bank stated this week that the current budget shortfall occurred due to a fall in revenue, not blowouts. He said the fall in revenue was caused by Howards income tax cuts. The truth can be stranger than fiction, for those that can handle it.I thought leadership issues, poor policies, corruption, a poorly orchestrated election campaign and the Murdoch press combined to bring about the Abbott govt. Your blaming the Greens is called projection.The Cook et all survey presented a figure,expressed as a % to a single question. It was not a view. The Zimmerman survey was smaller than you contend and it received only 79 responses. 77 of which said climate change is man made. Oreskes surveys are widely accepted in the scientific community. I doubt the veracity of your assertion that scores of scientists disputed the Cook survey.

Do you honestly contend that the IPCC not citing 2500 scientists in a report is a plausible argument against their credibility?

Can you refute the fact that not ONE single scientific body or government organisation rejects climate change?

 Can you tell me where in any of the above mentioned surveys the term catastrophic was used or discussed? Or that an opinion was saught on the probable extent of warming?

"The debate on the authenticity of global warming and the role played by human activity is largely non-existent among those who understand the nuances and scientific basis of long term climate processes".  (Doran 2009).

Do you deny that there have been orchestrated and funded campaigns by the fossil fuel industry to change the perception of climate change from that of FACT to THEORY. The first documented campaign I am aware of was a
 $510,000 one by a Texan oil company in 1991. They stated their objective as just that.Some hard data on the Consensus argument.

A review of 12,000 peer reviewed, published articles between 1991 and 2011 found that 97% of the authors considered climate change to be caused by humans. A follow up survey of the authors asked them the question "Do you believe that climate change is man made?" 97% replied yes. 

Source, John Cook( he and a team conducted the review and survey), University of QLD. And yes, this study has also been published.

Thank you linesman, thank you ballboys. Anyone for tennis?May 2014 was the hottest May so far recorded. Not so much surprises Alpo, just more facts.It's much more about increased industrialisation and increased living standards. China has their population under control yet their emissions are increasing, etc...Darrin, Al Gore was already here. He has been conducting climate change education workshops in Melbourne. The retiring head of the ACF, Don Henry asked Palmer if he was interested in meeting with him. Palmer said he didn't pay Gore anything but he paid for the dinner.You are using it out of context. The article is about communication. The Greens aren't half as extreme as you like to think. Their policies are transparent, you can find them on their website. The others don't seem to want us to know what their intentions are. 

We have a few senators that have some extreme views. One reckons carrying guns would reduce crime. What's your bias????"There is no consensus". You can't argue that one for a second. That is so lame It is actually funny.For the Greens it is a case of 'the enemy of my enemy is my friend'. Things were looking very grim prior to this announcement as  Abbott was going to dismantle everything and put in his token direct action plan. The big one is now on hold/up in the air as Sarah points out, but other things have been saved and direct action vetoed. Anything is better than nothing, the rot has been stopped and we begin to head in a positive direction again. Glass half full.

Having said that I believe your prediction may be bang on, Palmer hates the mining tax. I hope  no one here forms the opinion that I like Palmer, far from it.Al Gore has been out out here hosting a training course in Melbourne as part of the ongoing worldwide education campaign he is involved in. The retired head of the Australian Conservation Foundation, Don Henry decided to ask Palmer if he would like to meet Gore.when Gore asked we there any influential Aussies that may wish to talk with him. Don Henry says he didn't expect Palmer to accept the invitation. 

Gore was not paid by Palmer, but he did shout him dinner.The problem is the faceless backers have media manipulation down to a fine art and at present are one step ahead of the public. Sure , there are naive and ignorant people, and there are those lacking enough familiarity to make an informed or intelligent decision, but it is the political players themselves who embrace this. Think how they refuse point blank to release policy untill as late as possible. 

We have recently been having a policy debate 9 months after the election because they sprung all the good news on us in the budget and it looks like almost none of it will pass the senate. If this is the case then a double dissolution should be called. You can call your fellow countrymen a pack of mugs if you like but remember there are a pack of mongrels shovelling the dung at them. 

You said yourself you think they are giving us the bird so blame the perpetrators, not the victims.Yeah, he's bias against parliament.Evan, it is simply your belief that computer models "turn out flakey". As usual you are attempting to disseminate misinformation.

If you don't honestly know "what will be the signs", you cannot make a pretence of being knowledgeable enough on the subject to offer any opinion.Palmer has enters politics to spite the LNP. He was active during the last QLD state election to the extent that he confected a red  herring (the CIA-Greenpeace rubbish) purely to distract voters at what he saw as a critical point in the campaign. He later admitted it was deliberate. His remark about Wendy Deng being a Chinese spy was eerily similar. Clive expected to be rewarded by having a coal project rubberstamped and has railed against them at state and federal level since. His election 'tactics' in themselves show that he thinks little of treating the public as fools. That he is Machiavellian is proven, therefore he is no better and probably worse than most.

He has trumpeted that tonight he will announce " something good for mankind". I expect BS, I hope he proves me wrong.I'm guessing  the committee are to some extent consoled by the controversy they have generated. Any form of advertising is good advertising........ isn't that right?

If Badar believes the world would be a better place if it were a Muslim caliphate then maybe he is stupid. That and/or dangerous.Honour killings are about suppression and control of women on the biological and social levels. Muslim culture also suppresses women intellectually.Discrimination against homosexuals is not the half of it. It simply cannot be rationalised that Muslim culture can/will improve our values or that there is any significant good in it, but you can't argue with a religious nut.

And therein lies a big problem that won't be going away tomorrow.

Poverty in Australia rose from 10.2% to 11.8% of the population between 2001 and 2013. That is a lot of people.I know the difference between relative poverty and absolute poverty. Relative poverty in a wealthy country is still not a good thing for an individual or the almighty economy. Poverty is poverty, it is not a synthetic concept.Good point. Getting on slippery ground here but,.... 457s and skill shortages,......hairdressers? Farriers? Airline stewards? The list  depressing reading. No change whatsoever to annual migration in recent years despite an economic downturn and affordable housing crisis. 190,000/ yr and steady,  two thirds are "skilled" according to official govt stats, the rest family. 457s on top and 700,000 "leaners". Apparently the focus groups "went ballistic" in 2007 when Rudd announced that HE believed in a "Big Australia" since then we have silence.

I have raised the population issue mostly because I am concerned about steadily rising poverty figures, not because I am anti multiculturalism or racist.

 My grandfather said the Aussies in Haymarket and Flemington fruit markets had to have a few quiet words with people about racist assumptions, they were all newcomers.Toot is of the opinion that the govt is insincere. They jumped on the back of public outcry, yet refused to discuss the matter with Gillard, then another boat went down.

 A retiring Labour politician (can't recall her name) in expressing her disapproval of goings on in Parliament house remarked that "there were people there who got exited when they heard of a boat going down". She had criticisms of her own party too and was genuinely appalled. Toot is, I assume very cynical about our political culture and this govt in particular.Hi voicemale, a few stories from my local community in rural NSW, population 10,000.

April 2014, recently re opened chemist store in nearby small town burgled, drugs of addiction stolen.

May 2014, 37yo,woman dies of oxycontin overdose.

May 2014, 22yo male arrested for bashing his mother whilst high on prescription medication.( Apparently parolees attempt to beat drug tests by taking certain pharmaceuticals).

March 2014, The major regional newspaper runs feature articles about the rise of oxycontin deaths in regional areas. 

I am also acquainted with the owner of the largest retail store in this town and he told me last year he had recently succeeded in becoming oxycontin free 1 yr after a hip replacement. He asked his gp to help him. He said that after a few months the oxycontin was his main health issue.

70% of all opiod deaths are now from prescribed opiates. There are major social impacts to this drug and better regulation appears the only viable option. All statistics and news about oxycontin indicates the problem is still on the rise. Maybe statistics show that less problems are occurring than before oxycontin was introduced, either way it is an issue that needs scrutiny.Ae, it doesn't follow that your parcels will arrive faster or be cheaper if AP bites the dust. The couple that run our small post office spend 8 hours delivering the post. It makes sense to have centralised delivery points like these for efficiency. 

I may be wrong, but I think they receive 13c/parcel. They run a good show, are trying everything, including solar panels and a coffee shop. This is a one horse town in the wheat belt and it is only through the combined efforts and initiatives ofsaaqq locals that the town hasn't become a victim of economies of scale. The pub is closed, the cafe is owned by a residents co-op. There is a bank sub-branch at the general store which, apart from the Post Office is the sum total of the financial services available available for 40kms. Two other nearby towns have a fainter pulse than ours. The town survives by having a very good, basic caravan park and subsequent good word of mouth sees a steady trickle of grey nomads. The first thing they see when they walk to the main street is the Post Office on the corner. It houses the library sub-branch and a centre link computer. 
My friends are taking part in a class action by rural post office operators( they are already semi-privatised), they say they have no option as every year they make less for the same amount of work. 

Does it matter that your overseas purchases take a few days? How long is spent clearing customs and being sent to AP? My friend informs me that different contractors are largely responsible for varying delivery times. 
Macy's deliver from a central point to a central point in Australia, where it is dispersed far and wide to a much smaller population.

As I pointed out, our Post Office provides several services to a town with only the basics left. Delivering parcels is only one serviceHi Tom, a few things about smoking. Cigarettes are expensive( I quit this year) and have been made so deliberately by the govt. The strategy to cut down nicotine addiction is 3 pronged, education, regulation and taxation. The high taxation is a deliberate incentive to quit and is working for the employed and welfare recipients. The fact you have witnessed this behaviour at checkouts  shows a very tight disposable income and that it is so addictive people will place it above food. It isn't "just like alcohol", it is much worse. 

The largest 2 areas of increased spending in the poorest demographics are roll-up tobacco and LPG. You can assume there has been a trend to cheaper booze too. 
The basics card gets talked about a lot, yet this budget has cut funding to campaigns to help indigenous people quit($11m.). There is a mixed message there at best. 

"many of these people have a mobile phone".

 Everyone has a mobile phone gbe. If it is getting harder for you to spot "these people", why not check for cheap clothing instead. Btw, you can buy a phone for $50, they're cheap. Life on welfare is tight, especially newstart, don't let your imagination run riot.Liberal strategists are still toasting their own marketing brilliance when it was their opponents who gifted them govt last year. 
Patriotism is the last bastion of fools....... And rogues!The last Brit with an aggressive reputation was Nigel Mansell, he was lauded for it. Rosberg is so aggressive he has deliberately 'crashed' his car into his team mate. This rivalry has been interesting so far, but took an ugly turn at Spa. An early error from the Merc drivers was always on the cards, given the number of slides they both had in qualifying. Both drivers right on the limit before the race even started. Hamilton is the king of aggressive driving, Rosberg should not be playing him at his game. The winner on the weekend was the circuit.

Riccardo hasn't just won his third GP, he has won at Spa, the drivers circuit!Richards didn't deliberately take out his team mate. What we have is the rivalry for the championship getting ugly. Last time I looked, it was still against the rules to deliberately crash your car. 

Rosberg chose the weak option, rather than duke it out. Most remaining circuits are more favourable to RB cars, all he has done is put some pressure on the team and more on himself.Hi Greig. Nuclear power stations take many years to get to production stage and require massive investment. The time factor rules it out as a solution for now. Investment in  renewable energy is what is needed. Australia doesn't need it and most don't want it. Thorium is being developed in India, I believe they have one or two online and more planned, it might be practical there, but not for us.Evan, here are some of the facts presented by the IPCC. 

The rate of warming was predicted by the models.

The overall rate of warming in the previous 15 years, when compared to the previous 15 has accelerated.

Land surface temperature increases account for only 2% of overall warming.

There has been a preponderance of la Nina events since 1999. Contributing to a slowing trend in surface temperature.

That puts the "pause" in perspective. The IPCC report says a lot of things, none of which conform to your vague assertions.We could couch it in terms of what we export and make it a no-brainer that we should act. We no longer even charge for the pollution produced when digging it up and selling it.

This article states that we will pollute more and also pay more if the RET, a meaningful objective aimed at doing our bit is scrapped or reduced. 140 nations have a RET, many of them more ambitious than ours. 

We have almost the most expensive electricity in the world, for that reason alone we should be fostering renewables. Onshore wind is already cheaper.

The governments own modelling agrees that electricity prices will increase if the RET is reduced or scrapped  There can be no doubt that any decision to lower or reduce the RET will have everything to do with "Direct Actions" from industry lobbyists. 

Bev, it's not the total that counts, it's about who's leaning and who's lifting. We milk the energy cow big time, in more ways than one.Zing, it is an entirely valid point, part of a compelling argument. Recalcitrants only offer selfish reasons or seek to dismiss or discredit the facts.

Your argument is fundamentally flawed. How would our emissions remain the same if the population doubled overnight?Der Spiegel is the German equivalent of the Telegraph.Excess rooftop solar power is now virtually gifted back to the power companies, that is a subsidy in itself. Solar storage technology is now at the point where it can be stored on a commercial scale for 8 hours without batteries. Rooftop solar has a good cost/return ratio that will only improve short term. Renewable energy will never go backwards, it will increase in proportion to obstruction or encouragement, ie:government policies that impact on he market.

A coal fired power station in Victoria closed recently, immediately after it had used $50m. in federal subsidy to keep it going. $50 million of dead money in 2 years, just for one power station. The CEFC is returning 7% on investments in renewables.Wind power is already cheaper. If the government took the shackles off the CEFC, which at present is tied to meeting RET objectives then R&amp;D could really begin.

"Massive"(?) past subsidies and feed in tariffs are, as you said, past. Tell me about these current "direct and indirect subsidies". If they do exist, as you claim, then surely this is invalidated by the subsidies the fossil fuel industry enjoys.

I am of the opinion that the lobbying by these companies is so they can benefit by buying time to reposition themselves in the market. They are dragging the chain and are concerned about losing market share in the future. 

Convincing the government to change legislation so they can benefit later, that's the best subsidy if all.The IPCC report states that the rate of warming WAS within the range predicted by the models. The consistent, accelerating rise in ocean  temperatures, both surface and deep ocean ARE based on empirical evidence,(measurements from thermometers mostly, but also satellites). That called empirical data. Your statement is arrant nonsense.

Solar cycles in recent decades have moderately declined as the planet has warmed up. Global dimming, caused by increased CO2 and subsequent increase in water vapour also reflects some heat before it enters the troposphere. It's not the sun, it's the greenhouse effect. Everything you have said is untrue.Roger, there is a truckload of empirical evidence. Some of them are called thermometers, some are called weather stations, some are called ice core samples, etc...

The pause red herring has been dismissed that many times it is a zombie argument. By far the 2 hottest la Nina years on record are in those years, the only ones not to have been substantially cooler. Just because someone cherry picked a record hot year and manages to get an almost linear line on a graph showing a continual upward trend is meaningless. By your reckoning there have been 3 pauses in 70 years, all followed by a consistent upward trend and against trends in solar activity. 

Your claim that sea level rise has "paused" is untrue. Wind power is now cheaper (and can be stored) than coal power.Wind energy is stored as compressed air and then used to spin a turbine. Coal fired power stations take a long time to shut and refire, making them incompatible with renewables. Gas fired stations (50% less emissions) in Australia are on hold because of our current  government's policy on gas prices. They could still supply it to power companies at a profit, but are allowed to charge export price. US govt policy has long held companies to the lower tier for the benefit of industry and consumers, but not us.

The RET is modest in comparison to many other nations, eg Germany 60% by 2050, and many have already achieved over 20% reduction. Ours is 20%, it is not that big an ask or transition. All that is required is the will.A bit of some street lighting trivia. Last week the price of street lighting for a bunch of regional councils in NSW was increased by 108%.The governments own modelling says electricity will increase if the RET goes. Four studies all drew similar conclusions.Google 'greenhouse mafia'.Harbequas, AGW will not go away if global population is stabilised or reduced. Nor will the fact that most people on the planet are poor and thus have a low carbon footprint. The only regions with high population growth are the poorest, these are Africa and Pakistan. Rates everywhere else are steady or falling. The conundrum lies in reducing the poverty without increasing the per capita footprint. The way ahead is to reduce negative impacts on the environment.

Your talk about renewable energy being carbon negative is garbage. The common theme in your posts is that you assume you are qualified to give an overview of several fields, I don't see that you are at all well informed on any.The Ukraine government released intercepts of rebel groups "chattering" when the plane was hit. There is no doubt it was shot down by rebels. Don't believe everything you hear.Co2 is the cause of the greenhouse effect. If we don't reduce co2 levels in the atmosphere the planet will continue to get hotter. Reducing co2 needs to be number one priority. Reduction of pollution is a side benefit.Hi Greg, the two go hand in hand in terms of mitigation, I understand that. The ETS was a modest target by first world standards, the EU and USA are doing more than us already, and the ETS was working. I disagree that it screws over businesses or that there is corruption in the investment areas. We could have cheap and plentiful electricity AND substantially reduced emissions if we think it out well. There would be plenty of electricity to plug in the new car/bike. Regarding taking old cars off the road, poor people can't afford a new hybrid. Mines old, runs LPG, I don't want to sell it.

My opinion is that there is a titanic battle going on for short and medium-term market share between the "vested interests" and  a good majority of people in all nations who see a need for an energy transition. Politicians are the "pig in the middle". Everything I have learned from a wide variety of sources indicates that there is nothing to fear economically by phasing out fossil fuels and we already have the technology. CheersI favour a "point of extraction tax", but that is more problematic. ETS schemes are the best way in the medium term. They work!

 Fossil fuels have to be slowly priced out of the market, and they will be. I just finished replying to a poster who likes to think banks make dirty money on renewable energy loans, I disagree with your negative assumption too.Oh dear! The old greenie-pinko conspiracy rubbish. The other stuff you mentioned shows you are in denial of the facts.Apart from rising levels of co2 we are in a very stable period. No one in climatology is predicting an ice age. Patrick Moore has commented about chaos theory in relation to predicting climate( he was wrong because there are patterns), I have no idea what opinions he may hold. He doesn't seem to be outspoken on the topic,but he gets mentioned a lot.

The chance of an ice age with co2 levels above 350ppm? Zilch!Talking trivialities about "comparable data" doesn't change all the other measurements that confirm AGW and the direct link to atmospheric CO2 levels. 

Arctic and African data are not included in global mean measurements due to scarcity of weather stations, yet satellite and ground readings indicate higher rates of warming than global average. If included, an increased rate of increase would show. 

Any talk of a warming trend must include upper atmosphere and ocean temperatures, it is 70% of global mass and water conducts and stores more heat than land and plants. Water, atmospheric and land need to be considered together, and not with 1998 as the beginning.

All measurements indicate a uniform warming of the troposphere, confirmation of predictions that this would occur due to "Greenhouse Effect", there are many measurements that all show the trends.It's another myth Evan. In some regions with certain crops this will occur but the negatives outweigh the positives. Plants grow relative to soil ph, available nutrients, soil and air temperature, soil moisture, genetic and other factors. Then there is the C4 plant group, they have a different mechanism for converting CO2 and increased levels make no difference to growth. Sugar cane, bananas, rice and almost half of all grasses are in this category. 

The IPCC report explains at length why the negatives far outweigh the positives. They have also been saying they are certain since 1990, analysis of climate records is a much more exact science than predicting it. Time everyone heeded what they say instead of listening to self-styled experts. 

What the IPCC say is that effectively mitigating climate change will cost a small fraction of global GDP, I can't recall the figure, maybe 0.6%. They also say we are in uncharted territory, emissions have risen steeply since 1990 and the sooner we act the better.Correction to my post. The figure I mentioned doesn't relate to GDP, it is the negative impact on economic growth. The figure is 0.06%. Using a modest ballpark figure of 2% growth, that means an impact of 3% overall. If every nation makes proportionate contributions to mitigation the playing field stays level for international trade. 

This is not a figure that should alarm an economist."An Arctic blast hit Canada"????? That is weather, not climate, you are confusing or conflating the two.

Climate is 'weather over time' Amber.

Extensive data shows melting of ice caps, the melting of ALL glaciers and reduced snow cover in mountains throughout the Northern hemisphere in recent decades. 

Data analysis shows the Sub-Tropical zone has expanded 4 degrees in latitude from the equator since 1990. It's called the greenhouse effect.Co2 is not "good for the planet", the opposite is true. The IPCC report states that a doubling of co2 will increase temperature by a MINIMUM of 1.5 C. The range is 1.5-4.5 C, the models cluster at 3C.

There is a section in the IPCC4 report, FAQS  which discusses the myth that increased co2 means higher food production. Many other myths are are also dealt with. Many of our major food crops are from the C4 plant group, these plants do not grow any quicker with increased levels. Plant growth in the tropics is projected to fall by 50% later this century.

"Most independent measurements show bo warming" WRONG. 90% of the heat has absorbed by the oceans. One thing is for sure, it isn't getting any cooler.She is not right and I have already stated why. Greater nutrient loads and the added cost of lime and fertilizer become major issues and can effect viability. Increased growth requires more soil moisture, this is never a given. Irrigation water in Australia costs money. Increased temperatures that HAVE occurred due to increase CO2 mean changes to pesticide and disease control regimes. 

 Furthermore, changing rainfall and evaporation patterns will have negative impacts in some cropping zones, our Southern wheat-belt for example. Slightly warmer and drier conditions have a magnifying effect on dry land farming. This will have major negative impacts on our Wheat-Belt. Some previously "good cropping country" is becoming marginal in Australia and other places. Canada is benefitting from AGW presently.   

In agronomy it is all about the soil. Nothing grows without water or sun. CO2 levels are a less important factor. Farmers in many cases are adjusting in response to changing seasons, not reaping windfalls from heavy yields. The 1970's was the last sustained period of good yields in Eastern Australia. I found agronomy (and climate studies) fascinating when I was an agriculture student btw. Still do.

A correction on your sugar cane quick-facts. Sugar cane achieves it's growth rates because it absorbs and converts CO2 in its leaves in addition to photosynthesizing sunlight. C4 plants are more tolerant to moisture stress, thus have a major presence in semi-arid areas. C4 plants account for much more food and fodder production than their % as a plant group. There is research focussed on genetically engineering rice from a C4 to a C3 plant to achieve higher yields btw. 

Repeat.....The negatives outweigh the positives. Read IPCC AR4, FAQS.Climate zombies. Run away!Here's my twenty cents worth for the day. Peabody coal, the worlds highest coal producer has a billboard between Brisbane airport and the city for everyone to see during the summit. They have been lobbying leaders prior to the conference so, coal is on the agenda, therefore climate change is. 

A grape farmer, backed by the Getup organisation has been refused permission to display a billboard showing sunburned grapes from last year (the first time in 30yrs, harvest is a full month earlier the last 20yrs) because it is "too political". This shows there is push and shove behind the scenes.Comrade, I don't know full timeline of political decisions regarding Vietnam, but the withdrawl began in 1970 when 8RAR weren't replaced at the end of their rotation. The only troops over there by 1973 were guarding the embassy.Dear Kiwis, can you please hold a few coaching clinics for our politicians, they keep embarrassing us.

Hi Ian, Keating defeated Hewson with a GST fear campaign as I'm sure you know, but yes they were both doing their best to engage voters. At least Howard tried to avoid the mud slinging, Keating used character assassination against him in the 1990(?) election, he played the man not the ball. Abbott is a four letter word in my dictionary too.The "he has no ticker" tactic is not something I was aware of. Keating was sharp, no doubt about it, but I lost respect for him because of the way he bucketed Howard. I believe it is important that politicians set an example. I just want a more productive and civil political culture.I could have used a better word or term than embarrassed Mick. Selling us short is the best I can think of.Very good point Dave, probably what Barrie was hinting at when he said they manage to maintain a degree of independence. As a nation we seem to have progressed from mother Englands coattails to uncle Sams. We have co-depenency issues maybe, or take a long time to realise that we are being exploited.Any talk of primary votes would need to include Country Party votes. Are you talking Lib only or coalition votes?OUB, Has Abbott showed up to watch a rugby test in Sydney? The crowd reaction there would be a good indicator of his chance of re- election. The town hall was the best place to hold the service IMO.Gillard invited the opposition to sit down with them at the height of the people smuggling debacle, he refused. He is not the man we need by a long shot.

To the best of my knowledge confederacy was an invention of the American Indians, adopted by American settlers. The reason why it worked was because it involved a central meeting place with resident representatives and continual dialogue. We now have representatives who go to the "meeting place" to have superficial arguments contrived to influence onlookers. Hiawatha would be turning in his grave. United we stand, divided we fall.I can't see your point Forrest, Mr Green referred to Abbott as an intelligent and well-read man, where's the insult you were referring to?

Correct me if I am wrong, but it seems to me that this article is just another vehicle for you to play political argy bargy. Yank displays a lot more reason and maturity than you Forrest, lift your game.

My point is that you are indulging in the very thing you accuse Yank of doing and accuse Green of the same when this is not the case, and now I'm doing it. Very constructive...not!







That's a good point Olive. Raising the GST, which I am not averse to is only for balancing the books short to medium term. It doesn't address any structural issues. Shame.Dear Ann, I encourage you to extend the hand of friendship to OUB. I agree with the point he was making, that too much change, too soon can sometimes make things worse. I'm centre- leftish myself, right wing on some issues, but having some familiarity with his posts, find he is consistently more moderate and human, and mature than most of us. We all need to make an effort to lift our game. Cheers!Terry, Whitlam was the trailblazer of the land rights movement. Google "Wave Hill", they were being used as virtual slaves on their own country by an overseas landlord. The point of the 1967 referendum was to acknowledge them as equals, not to bestow privilege. The remote communities were already in place, along with the "sit down money". To pay tribute to a person at a funeral or memorial service by highlighting their positives is a MATURE and appropriate custom, it is not hagiography. Don't speak Ill of the dead, there is s time and place for everything.

"I would not be surprised if they had deteriorated", shows that you lack familiarity on a matter you have forthright opinions on. If Pearson thought along those lines he would have said so a long time ago, why do you reckon he showed up and said what he said?.Butt out Tory Boy, you knew nothing about "this person" two weeks ago, don't pretend you are familiar now. Smear campaigns, spin and negative reinforcing work too, but it isn't exactly democracy. When media moguls and corporate lobbyists influence both voters and politicians it becomes more like fascism.Norway now has over $1million dollars in its treasury for every citizen. We borrow money from them. Ironic eh!A favourite trick denialists like you use TonyM, is to discredit the science by attacking the reliability of the models. Models are used as predictors only and are definitely not what the science is based on. You know this. "98% fail", are you saying they catch fire or stop working somehow?

A climatologist, Bozo25 made some insightful comments last week on a related Drum article, among them he stated that even he did not know the finer points of how the models work. His point seemed to be that it would be arrogant to critique the success or usefulness of them. The IPCC consistently expresses confidence in the models. Scientists publish their own lists of what they think are the weaknesses of the models they are employing when they begin running them. 

There are different models for specific studies. I believe the Cyclone Predictor has made very accurate predictions. Series 5 models are now in use.

What substance is there to this 98% fail rate claim?

An alarmist prediction that has come true? It is documented that extreme weather events have increased significantly in both frequency and intensity in recent years. Melting ice sheets and glaciers and the inevitable sea level rise.The Barrier Reef is experiencing more frequent bleaching events due to increased ocean temperatures. This bleaching occurs at a certain temperature which I cannot recall off the top of my head, but it is only 1 degree C above current average maximums. The medium term prognosis for the Reef is rather grim. Corals are now growing south of the Reef, indicating increased sea temp.Nice one Bulldust, alluding to the debate being hijacked by representatives of "extreme green" organisations. Some people find it pays to keep an issue polarised. You don't seem to have grasped the meaning of astroturf, although you have been guilty of it in the recent past.

I'll go with what the IPCC says over a radio phone in. The IPCC are the most credible authority on the planet and nothing will change this. They are not incompetent, scheming lefties, but their work is done on a voluntary basis, describing this synthesis report, or any of their work as "alarmist and bunk" is heaping cheap insult on cheap insult. Due to AGW becoming a political football, too many people still have strong opinions that are not based on facts, credible information or even reason.

I personally became interested after reading an (infamous) article in The Sunday Mail by Andrew Bolt, who claimed the science was rubbish because he " investigated" it. It seemed a bold and arrogant claim and I realised my opinion was only media based, so I started reading up here and there as a hobby. I am an informed laymen, a concerned citizen like the majority of "alarmists" on the "left end" of the debate, whatever that is.Hi Eggman, James Hansen advocates a levy at the point of extraction, with the proceeds distributed evenly back to the entire population, a simple and effective way.And an even more pertinent question would be, "what effect are ETS scheme in China and other nations having on curbing emissions?"Greig, that climate change causes extreme weather is proven and measured. For instance storms in the Atlantic are definitely more frequent since 1900, have increased steadily and since 1993 major storms have increased in intensity by 70%. Droughts are increasing in severity and increased desertification has been observed. 

source: climate.org/topics- extreme-weather/index.htmlIncidence of EXTREME events is on the increase, not these events themselves. Droughts are not predicted to be more frequent, cyclones are predicted to decrease by 33% but the SEVERITY of these "extreme" events IS increasing. 

Alpos' statement is correctI'm one of those idiots who likes to make peace so I'll award you a point each.You conveniently omitted the two most comprehensive and compelling surveys, the Cook study and the Powell study. The Powell study found 24 dissenting summaries from 13,950 papers over a 20 year period. The other surveys you mention are credible surveys, just less comprehensive.

You and others keep alleging a great scam, why is there never any evidence of this?Hi Fogey, the different types of carbon isotopes help scientists to determine how the CO2 entered the atmosphere, the evidence points to fossil fuels.

I'm not sure if Al Gore was warning of a coming ice age but I did recently read the "ice age theory" was never an opinion held by more than a handful of scientists, unfortunately the media loved it. Cheers.I visited the Jnova site last night, she is urging followers to harass the ABC. She has a link to the current ABC poll and her (awful) site has the ABC is a topic in itself. I didn't notice any science, just propaganda.Your credentials are? BTW, where can I join up to "The Church of Climatology", do they work from a few central websites with common sponsors? I want to learn more about bombast and false rhetoric mostly.Grf, I have cited a link in an earlier post that discusses North Atlantic storm activity, frequency and severity. There is convincing evidence of increased severity already. It documents a pattern since 1900 similar to land temperature increase, ie; a rise, a plateau followed by a rise, followed by a plateau, followed by another rise. Intensity of severe storms in the North Atlantic have increased 70% since 1993.

Hi Closet, I have looked at nuclear as an alternative and am not keen on it for the following reasons,
1. Nuclear plants take a long time to bring online, therefore it doesn't fit with the "window of time" very well.

2. Nuclear requires massive capital outlay, which would case economic disruption.

3. Nuclear plants require huge amounts of water for cooling. Water is an increasingly valuable resource in Australia.

4. Thorium technology, which is much safer is becoming a reality. Similarly, fusion power may be a reality in a few decades. I personally hope to see nuclear fusion harnessed in my lifetime.

5. We have an abundance of wind and solar energy available and wind energy is proving to be competitive with coal for electricity generation.

6. Risk of sabotage.

I have concluded that for Australia, nuclear power just isn't necessary. The retired head of the ACF, Ian Lowe does not think nuclear is a suitable solution and he is a nuclear physicist.The scientists who compile the IPCC reports do it voluntarily.Hi David, I does reflect poorly on us as a nation that this anti-intellectual mindset is alive and kicking, even more so when it is acceptable to be a self styled expert. And you never see an ideologue with an open mind. "God save the world from idealists".I can verify that. Damn those useful idiots.

Your point is worth repeating...The Jnova site urged people to stack the poll,...... oh wait, they only asked them to "warn the ABC", and complain in general, and to be a pest about it. A highly credible site that one.Your statement that there is no sea-level rise is a lie. 

The denialist "issue de jour", seems to be this nonsense that there is no uptake of heat by the oceans. There is increased heat in the upper oceans and increased heat down to 2000m. To use deep ocean heat or lack of it is skewing the context. Deep ocean temperatures are recorded in sparse locations and were virtually non-existent until recent years. 

You say that "model predictions have been wildly overstated", if what you say is true, that is direct and irrefutable evidence of scientific fraud.It's called "the mounting yard pick", Cloud Spirit and it does have some merit. It isn't infallible of course, but if you see one really standing out, you may be on to something. So You Think looked incredible before he won his first Cox Plate and Fiorente last year was best. 

Well, at least a change to the GST is on the table. I was very disappointed with Shortens' reaction this week, many of us have had enough of these antics to last a lifetime.Dean Jones said he detected a technical flaw, some of our batsmen are leading with their leg and head, then their hands. He says they need to get the bat forward. Hopefully we will see improvement."Team Australia" is susceptible to spin, no doubt about that.George Bush Snr wanted to make inroads into AGW also. At the end of his term he was bewildered that they had achieved nothing meaningful.Greenland, Nepal. Rainfall distribution patterns in the Southern part of our continent and the West coast of NZ ( Predicted 23yrs ago, and confirmed by the data). The answer is virtually everywhere because of temperature rise alone. What point are you trying to make from this?

Can you tell me where sea-levels haven't risen?Hi GRF, agriculture is a distant third in emissions output, behind electricity production and vehicle use. There are pie charts that illustrate this..

The green revolution was primarily about the breeding of new plant varieties that gave increased yields. The greatest leap forward in agricultural production was the invention of synthetic Nitrogen fertilizers earlier in the 20th century. I learned this once upon a time at agricultural college.Study the report Clete, reducing emissions will not be compulsory. In fact the way it works is that taxpayers will reward the polluting industries if they choose to cut emissions. The reduction target is token IMHO.We produce 1.5% of global emissions, you are out by 3 orders of magnitude.TonyM, "In science we measure etc....."

 Are you a climate scientist?. It was once stated on a forum that you work in IT. Convince me you are not astroturfing.

"slurring scientists"? Reinhard has shown this man has little or no scientific credibility.TonyM, I have a question for you. 

If your assertion that a doubling of CO2 will result in 0.43 degrees C temperature increase is accurate, why have temperatures increased 0.86 degrees during the period when CO2 levels have increased by just over 40% ( 280 up to 400ppm)?DeBrere, you're the one making an extremely bold contrary assertion, the onus is on you. Have you or TonyM ever had anything published in a remotely credible scientific journal?

Credible organisations and journals are at the top of the information pyramid. You and I are together at street level. Disproving what people like you have to say is like shooting fish in a barrel, unfortunately you keep coming back like a zombie pack.

TonyM, the consensus on climate sensitivity in relation to a doubling of CO2 has not changed since 1979, it is put at 1.5- 4.5degrees C. Current state of the art models span a range of 2.6-4.1, most clustering at 3.0. 

Annual global subsidies for fossil fuels are estimated to be $9 trillion. Hows that for draining the public purse?Hi Hairy, I checked the immigration stats at mygov.com 2 months ago, 190,000 last year and apparently the same this year. I'm not too sure about the 300, 000 figure, but yes immigration rates have been very high for over a decade. I definitely recall a figure of 280,000 during Howards tenure, I have it a book that addresses the population debate. 457 figures I know not, but the range of 'skilled' occupations is laughable, farriers, hairdressers, apparently we have a shortage of skilled air stewards. The Labour govt expanded the 457 list, there is no political high ground for either party on this issue.

Just a few days ago a commenter from Macksville said 350 Spanish roadworkers recently arrived. There are plenty of Irish lads up North on the mines I hear. I hear Aussie nursing graduates are being overlooked for foreign nurses, as they are more experienced. Things have gone too far.

I am reminded of part of a speech by Indian leader Ten Bears, " The young men have heard about this and they are sad and angry".

TEAM AUSTRALIA, warming the bench.I picked a full season in Young NSW, the money was not bad but the weather (rain) had the final say, none of us left town flush. I did make some decent money picking several different crops as a student though.

 Australians thinking to go to Griffith are advised by those in the know, "don't bother the labour hire companies don't want you". This was told to me by the manager of an employment office 3yrs ago. The days of following the picking circuit are mostly gone.

BTW, Melbourne Cup day signals the start of cherry season. Yum!"A young bloke with a job rarely gets into trouble with the law" BLF leader Norm Gallagher, 1986.I don't fully buy your argument Realist. There will always be people with a greater capacity for hard work and those with more smarts and initiative. I see this government, and the previous two as having sown the seeds for this. Under Howard we had 2% unemployment for a while, that is regarded as full employment. There always has been and always will be some malingerers, but to say we suddenly have fostered a bludging culture in ten years is "blaming the victim" for recent policy failures IMO. 457s are part of this.

To repeat my main point, 2% unemployment only a decade ago, bugger all "leaners". 

Social responsibility is a two-way street. This painting of young adults as lazy and selfish lifestyle bums only breeds resentment.Gday Alpo, just a bit on farmers and National party attitudes. Michael McCormack, member for Riverina has held some workshops in his electorate to educate farmers about the expected effects of climate change. At least we have one Nat. not playing ducks and drakes.

 I know more than a few farmers and most take AGW as fact now. Some are recalcitrant, but the new breed especially are on the money. As one said to me "it's a bit hard to deny what the Bureau of Met. says about AGW when we are checking their forecasts and radars every day. When farmers see clouds on the horizon, out comes the smart phone and straight to the BOM. Most rural news weeklies are bought for BOM and market reports.That CO2 is not a pollutant is completely irrelevant to any debate about AGW or cutting pollution.

CO2 is greenhouse gas, have you bothered to get your head around the properties of greenhouse gas Billy Bob? Sunlight can pass clean through a molecule of CO2, but it traps some infra- red light from the planets surface. Infra red light has thermal heat in it. This is why emissions must be cut back closer to pre- industrial levels.

Therefore, an appropriate response would be "That has nothing to do with either cutting pollution or mitigating the problem of AGW.

You can call me an alarmist if you want, I'll wear it as a badge of honour.Damien, there have several studies done on the effect the RET will have on prices, including those commissioned by this government. All except one have said electricity will become more expensive if it is abolished. The dissenting paper has been criticised for having flawed assumptions as a starting point. Four of the studies were commissioned for the Warburton report. This has been reported in the media and is not hard to find on the net.

This push to abolish the RET is part of a plan to retard the growth of wind energy because it is rapidly approaching price parity. It has been stated by official sources that on-shore wind energy achieved unsubsidised price parity in Spain, Germany, Denmark and India in mid 2013. The opinion of the energy-science coalition, an Australian organisation is that wind will get cheaper as economies of scale are achieved. My opinion is that the Federal government is trying to prevent this from occurring for as long as possible. Life support for the coal industry and electricity providers because wind energy is the main threat in the short term.

energyscience.org . "is a co-operative production by a group of concerned scientists and policy experts to promote a balanced and informed discussion on the energy future of Australia".

 I find it more interesting and illuminating to source information from the top of the information food-chain than take on trust what is said further down because distortions and mistruths occur when the info is disseminated on the way down to us. You can't always take the media or politicians on trust any more. Their aim is to influence our opinions basically by whatever means it takes, and the less informed one is, the more easily convinced. Cheers.Forrest, Chinese citizens are concerned than we are, I got this from wikipedia, (China, energy policy). Here are some results of a survey.

88% concerned about AGW.

97% think the govt should do more to act.

91% want a minimum of 25% renewable energy use.

61% concerned about nuclear power.

There is a summary of the current 5yr plan and an account of a protest by 120,000 residents in Hainan protesting the opening of a coal fired power station in 2012.

CO2, the most problematic greenhouse gas is released along with,the particulates. One causes AGW the other pollution. Aerosol pollution is actually shrouding the greenhouse effect because these aerosols reflect sunlight, it's called global dimming. Sulphates and nitrates, released when coal is burnt are aerosols.

Sematics Jakarta, Germany is the world leader in advancing renewable energy. Their overall circumstances are different to ours ao you comparison is not valid. "As fast as they can!" That is a distortion. They would rather use some coal for a while than continue with nuclear. Germany has a target of 80% renewables by 2050 (if memory serves me correctly, I don't take many notes). Germany is the world leader in advancing renewable energy.Hi Stan, I would like to add that the number of new record hot days far exceeds the number of new record cold days. 

Another pointer to the certainty of the greenhouse effect is that night time minimums are increasing faster than daytime maximums. This demonstrates that heat is being trapped.

Hi Sandra, Abbott promised 1 million more solar rooftops but reneged, citing "budget emergency".There was an article printed on this site roughly 6-7 weeks ago that described a breakthrough in commercial scale baatery storage. The battery comprises lead, lithium and salt water. This battery operates at around 450 degrees C, much lower than other batteries to date and lasts longer. Because less energy is required to heat it, a significant cost reduction is achieved. The scientists used the word breakthrough and said it has an immediate application 

Greg Jericho, your excellent articles seem to be improving the level of debate. Good journalism!Hi Bozo25, thanks for dropping by. There is a farmer out my way, the Riverina who went off grid for $48k 2 years ago. He went solar and wind(10m turbine) with battery back up. It runs 2 homes and the workshop. 

I agree that the power companies are helping to push people off-grid. I believe it is called buyer resistance and the concept is "price elasticity".

The debate here improves slowly, so far today nobody has rubbishes the IPCC or NASA, maybe a first!Why are you always so bombastic Peter?

The fact that China and other developing countries are the worlds " factory" is not something I believe you would dispute, or that we sell them the raw materials. That makes us responsible for more than what we emit at home. The "bugger you Jack" argument is a weak one.It was remiss of me not to mention stun guns, they have been an industry standard for 40 yrs. My mate complains that the Muslim slaughtermen are less proficient in sharpening their knives than their Aussie contemporaries if you want some ammunition gd. Bugger off with your politics.I have a major problem with the description of the owner of Waterloo station as small family operators. A shipment of 2000 cattle in one hit, whether or not it was the only shipment for the year is not "small business". You can argue about wages and overheads all you like, but don't play the "struggle street" card. Having to make a phone call to explain about being late with a bill can indicate a cash flow issue, but if you want to tell  a sad story tell me about who had to walk away from their 99 or 66 or 33 year crown lease agreement. Who went under? Is the children's education suffering? Some employees never returned, was life as a low paid stockman so idyllic that they shrivelled up and died. You sell meat for a living, you are not a cultural icons or an essential service. Nor so poor you can't employ lawyers to try and win an argument.

Sue the people that were supposed to be ensuring humane conditions, not the government. This article states that the failure lies within.

This is a classic example of the saying " self regulation is no regulation at all ". Your industry mechanism failed you and the government bought the hammer down, and rightly so.

I have worked on two of the largest dairies in Australia, worked with near as many cattle on a daily basis as the 2000 that missed the boat when the ban was implemented, I know the nature and intelligence of the "beast" as well needs to be known, they are not a dumb animal. Moreover, my father was a butcher and I worked for him from my early teens. 

That footage was a horror movie, I had to force myself to watch it all. Cattlemen and women cannot play down the gravity of the cruelty and terror in those slaughterhouses( not abattoirs).

If you care, raise the bar and ask for help to do so. Don't blame the government. You guys know you turned too much of a blind eye. And those  that don't; you don't belong in the modern industry.

If you don't care about the "stairway to heaven", you don't belong. I make no apology for my statements.A highly plausible hypothesis.I interpret it as patronising pap from a politician who cares more for his political team and backers than the nation as a whole.The GG threw him out, the voters subsequently rejected him because of the perception that he had done something wrong. I see you are a fan of " the ends justify the means" in politics. The fact is he lost office because of a sneak attack as Mungo explains. 

Thanks for the article Mungo, it fills in some gaps as to what and how it really unfolded.Senator ( for donkey votes), you have failed to persuade me on any point. I find your suggestion that the Federal Police are populated by power freaks who must be contained lest they become unmanageable very weak and a general insult to our security forces.

A politician stating that a negative trait of a particular profession is an unhealthy desire for power, ironic.Everything is politics, fair enough but an overarching issue here is the culture and the methods employed to influence opinion." It ain't what you do, it's the way that you do it". You know, dog whistles, appeals to emotion instead of reason, paid liars in the media, fact free zones, deliberate distortions, right- wing lobbyists, question time regarded as "theatre". It's not the politics it's the bulldust.How do you ban illegal handguns? One of the best things Howard did. For mine, the best thing he did was effectively implement the GST.Well, Jim Cairns was Federal treasurer at the time, at least he knew good assets when he saw them.457 roadworkers? To the best of my knowledge the mid north coast is a high unemployment area. I suppose the excuse for this is that they are "skilled" roadworkers. I have long been of the opinion that work for the dole should have been centred on highway building, with full-time work awarded to those who proved themselves.

That really is appalling.Peter "the lawyer", CO2 is a  GREENHOUSE GAS that is released into the atmosphere when coal and other fossil fuels are burned. A cocktail of other pollutants are released simultaneously. No amount of semantics or sophistry alters this fact.

The increasing levels of CO2 in our atmosphere over the last century  is the primary cause of the problem.Coal for steel production accounts for &lt;10% of total coal use in the USA. Coal for electricity is no longer necessary, wind has proven to be cheaper.I have Tropical and that is why I stated this fact. I research everything before I give "my opinion". Had I not been at work today, I would have the time to cite references to credible sources. This information is readily available to anyone with a keyboard and an open mind.Coal burned for the production of steel is a small fraction of the total coal burned. I checked it before I blogged. I always research first. What is stopping you from citing credible sources. You show me yours and ......... I promise you I will reciprocate.The skeptical science website puts the 'pause' in perspective by stating.  "the eighties were warmer than the 70s, the nineties were warmer than the eighties, the 90s were warmer than the 80s, the 2000s were warmer than the nineties.

The jury is in everybody, whether you think so or not. There is no disagreement within the scientific community. 

I have pointed out to you directly on previous occasions Bulldust that scientists in Australia and many other nations CAN NOT top up their salaries with grants. Moreover, most research grants come from private industry. This scientific gravy train SLUR has never been backed up with any supporting evidence. Got any????

Second, consensus in the scientific context means 'no argument'. I have directly pointed out to you many extensive surveys that have arrived at the same high level of agreement. The Powell study, for instance found 24 extracts ( the summary of the peer reviewed, published articles) out of 13,950 disagreed with the AGW position. Not for the first time your are distorting and misrepresenting the Oreskes study, there have many since.

I will say it again, consensus= no disagreement. This is not a meaningless " concept".

If you wish to disprove the greenhouse effect you will need to convince the entire scientific community that humankinds understanding of fundamental physics is wrong. Good luck.



Models have never been presented as "evidence". The evidence is in the empirical measurements, thermometers, tide guages, Co2 measurements, pan evaporation rates, etc.... You never cite facts Bulldust, why?

Models are used as predictors and their limitations are widely  accepted. You know this. You also know that the climate models are not "the IPCCS'. The IPCC is a UN reporting body, nothing else. 

Could I interest you in a constructive debate about the role of 'global dimming' relative to the current and medium term influence it has on the warming of the planet and the role it has is masking short term warming? I'm good to go.

Facts Bulldust! Why do you never offer facts?Evidence of the trillions given in grants? Fossil fuel industries receive $9 billion in grants, this fact is in the public domain.Gnome, warmth, water and carbon dioxide do not not add up to a better world. And it does not follow that these things will occur worldwide. 

As an example I cite the predictions of climatologists 25yrs ago that pressure systems in the Southern part of our continent would shift south, further into the Great Australian Bite and that shifts in rainfall patterns would occur. Predictions were made that less rain would fall in the SW corner of WA (basically their cropping belt) and that missing rain would fall on the West coast of Tasmania. Similarly, less rain through the Victorian cropping belt and southern NSW. This rain was predicted to fall on the West Coast of New Zealand. The correlation between the prediction/s has been very accurate over this period. .

I would like you to consider whether or not the ecosystems in the more arid parts of Australia are resilient enough to withstand an increase of &gt;2 degrees C, and what impacts this would have on pastoral and agricultural enterprises. I am well versed and qualified in agronomy and Rangeland Management ( arid zone land management), so take it from me, you don't know anywhere near enough to have a valid opinion on global food production. Crop yields/ha are slowly and steadily falling globally, increased Co2 will not alter this. Not everything grows better in a hothouse.Unequivocal means " no doubt"!Models are predictors TonyM and nothing else. You are being deliberately misleading to use the consensus figure in relation to the accuracy of climate models. To say most fail is also deliberately misleading. Climate models are widely acknowledged to be very useful tools. Demanding perfection, given the variables and intricacies ( including predicted cloud activity) is a spurious argument.

The Hansen forecasts were made in 1988(?). Correct me if I'm wrong.Thanks for mentioning his conservation legacies. The Great Barrier Reef Marine Park authority was established by his government. He was very supportive of the relatively new Australian Conservation Foundation.Heartening to see a conservative leaning person offering condolences and respect, good on you.Henderson was on tv the day Bradman died, claiming that the tributes and niceties that flowed were hagiography. He looked less than impressive that night too.I recall one of the older boys on the school bus explaining that we now had the option of university, thanks to the new government. Most kids left after yr 10 back then. We are a smarter nation because he gave working class people "a fair go".

One person here has chosen to refer to him ( and Barrie) as either stupid or arrogant. Gough Whitlam had more class in his big toe than many people will ever possess.The Gold Standard of Australian politics, the patriarch. 

Nuclear takes a long time to bring online and the investment required is massive. It will become become part of the solution down the track, if needed. I won't bore you with any other small facts to enforce this, but it is a widely held opinion among the experts.


One scientist of this opinion is Professor Ian Lowe, retired head of the ACF. He is a nuclear physicist.Bulldust, CO2 is a GREENHOUSE GAS, released into the atmosphere along with a cocktail of harmful pollutants when coal is burnt. Australia is right up at the top of the lists as a per-capita emitter, end of story.

Dr Karl published an article recently on the economic benefits of mittigating climate change by changing to clean energy. Many leading economists agree on this.Hi Steve, two points. Firstly, there are 1 million solar rooftops in Australia, that says a bit about people taking steps to reduce their carbon footprint. It has been pointed out previously that this argument is known as a "tou qou quo logical fallacy".

Secondly, coal usage. Yes it is well known that there is no new way to make steel yet, but coal used to produce steel is a minor percentage of total coal consumption. The USA uses &gt;90% of it's coal for electricity generation. I haven't managed to find the global figure yet. 

So, when we virtually eliminate coal as a source of electricity, we will have reduced  total emissions from coal by over 80%. I don't agree with your comment about scrap iron. None would be recycled if what you say is accurate.An eminent Australian contended recently that the measure of a civilization is the way it treats it's pariahs. In my opinion it is best to precede a statement of ones own opinion with the words, IMHO or " I believe that...."

 Another eminent Aussie encapsulates remarks like yours with this gem,..   " An opinion is a bum, everybody's got one". ( Paul Vautin, tee hee!).Hi Judy, I have had more than my share for now , but can't resist sharing this comment with you. It was used by John Cleeses' psychiatrist, who co-authored a book with him on mental illness which sold well.

 "Happy people don't write letters to the editor". The rantings of those who wrote to newspaper columns prior to the digital age was regarded as a good barometer of the mental health of a given demographic.

Thanks Tim, thanks Judy. I love youse all!That is how it was too folks! A brief story to add to this..... My father drove nightshift taxis in Sydney in the seventies and on regular family tours of the city on weekends with my siblings and I would shift into 'tour guide mode',  stories about the buildings, passengers he chatted with, history snippets, a pie at Harrys Cafe De Wheels etc... One consistent theme was that whenever we passed a spot where a homeless person resided he would remark, to the tune of.... "That's Robert, he lives here during the day and at night he pushes his shopping trolley full of his possessions down to Moore Park and returns each morning, that's Eddie, poor bloke is a bit mad.. Peter, everyone in the city knows who Peter is, that's  Rolo, he's very shy,... There are three guys who live at Circular Quay......"      

How many homeless men are there dad? "Oh, not sure exactly, less than 20".

This was the early seventies. A short half lifetime ago. The lot of the poor  improves on a global scale, no doubt, but yes I agree with the negative you are highlighting. We will likely sort this ethical and moral decline before too long ( half a lifetime?), hopefully. Good wins in the end. 

 PS. Dad was a milko for a while too incidentally, no bread or milk home deliveries anymore. Plastic screens and CCTV in cabs. Sixty homeless men sleeping outside Woolloomooloo Police Station last time I walked past, a homeless person in every other alcove in the city. Kids can't play in the creek near the oval anymore. Well worth a mention, as is the fact that the Vietnam war was raging at the time. Uncle Jim did two full tours as an infantry reg. He never quite got over it.Hello again Tanya, I remembered something else that I feel is significant and pertinent relevant to 1971~. Whitlam came to office and did so on the back of a campaign that advocated positive change. No vilification of political opposites or individuals, no promise to "tear down" anything. And he pulled our troops out. Whitlam had more class in his big toe than most of our present cabinet combined.

"What is continually striking when you  study  late Victorian literature is how much more decent and socially mature they often were".  Robert M Pirsig, from," Lila, an enquiry into Morals". This book won a Pulitzer prize.Hi Backwards, I am bursting to say a few things here, will stick to two  comments and post something independently later. First thing, I think this is a VERY perceptive article. 

Second, I've been a plasterer for longer than Scotty Cam has been on tv. I'm having a very ironic chuckle regarding your complaint about being forced to pay engineers when you have long been competent in Council compliance procedure (and I think I can safely assume you have few problems getting your work passed by the inspectors), because Scott is a "taught up" carpenter/builder and his show encourages unskilled people to have a go at several trades.

This is no slur on him, I think he is great,  I am 'taught up' also and a proud tradesman. I know a veteran concreter who has a similar complaint to you.

There are many instances of un unrenovated units selling for the equivalent of a renovated one when the market is robust, why because those that want to unleash their creative and physical energy want their own 'designer home', not yours. Most reno's should be for renting or for living in. Speculation is more successful in the new  housing market.

PS. I don't watch it.Scott isn't a burnt out old tradesman and has been known to take on jobs during his tv career. Stacks of builders would employ him as a supervisor.Same in the inland towns in the eastern states. Good point.I can tell by glancing at the plasterwork that it has been done by a good tradesman. I was under the impression that contestants are paid daily according to the actors award.

Builders become aware of what sells and why. The kitchen and bathroom are the clinchers whenever there is a female involved. Function and colour. Stick to safe colours if you are speculating. Please yourself if it is for the long term.AE, how does a person with no skills and no job end up owning a house and two cars 20 minutes from the city? If you need guidance on the word fair, then gaze at your navel while contemplating why it is part of the title of the national anthem, or why rules of sport and laws are made in relation to it. Moreover, is basic equality a concept you dislike or do you need to get out more?A survey in the US about ten years ago investigated the reasons how people achieved millionaire status, at this point in time there were 1 million millionaires. There were only two factors and they were strong. Twenty five years of work and a stable marriage. I personally believe that an absence of bad luck is more important than good luck.

The poverty rate has increased again, now  above 13%, which equates nicely with the 1 in 8 who struggle to pay the electricity bill. Yet the government decides the poor can be milked more. It appears the government has no conscience.Dean, there are 79 comments up at present, one person identifies himself as unemployed and poor. Where are all the self pity, poor bugger me" posts, the likes of which you have never seen before?

"Poor fella me, poor fella my country" is the saying you have drawn from. It means something quite different and has nothing to do with money. It's about feeling lost.

Poverty line figures are compiled by the University of Melbourne . The figure is over 13% and has been growing quietly for several years. The ACOSS figure is no measure at all.A dose of the arts at school does nobody any harm. I wish I had more at school. A trivial fact I enjoyed stumbling on recently is that Australia has the highest global attendance per capita at art galleries. We might not know our art but we like to look at it.

The history of the word ART is fascinating. It derives from Proto-Indo-European roots and back at this source means order (spelt, rta). In old Greek, the word ARETE, translates as all round excellence. Arete is synonymous with Quality. The word arithmetic also has links to art, as does rhetoric. The Greeks obviously valued a "well rounded" individual. Not a lot has changed in 2000+ years, it is still considered desirable.

A few people have have chosen to throw a dart at sport. It does help in building character IMO and sometimes can be beautiful to watch. Who hasn't enjoyed watching ice skating or hasn't marvelled at Roger Federer. Similarly, we hear phrases such as " an elegant equation" and chess masters like to "win beautiful". Tai Chi Chuan and some other martial arts can be beautiful to watch. You can even appreciate the (stinking) "sweet science" of boxing. The Greeks didn't see the mind and body as separate entities, there can be great beauty in human movement.

Art is part of life, a large part of it in many ways.I believe morale in the Navy was lowest at the peak of the boat arrivals.I was thinking to say something similar. I would not be surprised if being low-key in general since the election is deliberate. A lot of us had a gutfull of the barking, relentlessly aggressive opposition style of tactics. Plenty of time for that.

The Labour party is the closest thing we have to a 'Peoples Party' and if they don't heed what senator Faulkiner (sic?) is saying they will continue to lose popular support.

My latest rumination is that, if a significant increase in Independent and Green members in the lower house occurs, things would improve. It would put the brakes on the adversarial culture and see more ideas from a more representative group of people, unlike present. 

You have to resist negativity sometimes Kimberley, it's like apathy.....best shaken off every morning.Zing, I think you are in the minority equating rarity with "worth" in animals, the flora and fauna within an ecosystem are not tradable commodities. You use this analogy and talk about "human perception and time", but have nothing to say about these threatened and extinct species, which by your logic makes them more valuable because they are becoming rarer. Are you advocating action or is your logic flawed?  

No introduced species are now, or ever will be considered native. Accurate terms are, introduced, feral or naturalised. The cat has already caused extinctions of many species and the problem is growing. We were having major environmental problems before Federation, continue to and are still in a steep learning curve as to mitigating damage. 

Top End ecosystems are being hit harder at present than ever and cats and toads are doing the most damage. You seem either very complacent or over-estimate your level of understanding of ecology and what is occurring now. What is occurring will be historically known as a period of extinction.

I have a climbing rose currently in full bloom, with a 4m spread of beautiful apricot flowers (true!). It has been thriving on neglect, should I spray it?

A feral cat by any other name is still a feral cat!Same here, the cat problem was highlighted in the NT media in 1987/88 by a high profile conservationist. He said that a fencing program was necessary. There is a rare Wallaby in WA that was almost wiped out in a short space of time by a single cat. People care, there is simply a lack of political will and some ignorance. Did you see the recent article that showed the stomach contents of a culled cat? It had eaten 50 small critters! It is depressing, I was a young post-grad in Rangeland Management then and as you said, NOTHING has changed in 26yrs except the damage increases. I believe that more people care than don't, because we see so much inertia from our governments on so many environmental issues we get fatalistic about it.

Best control measures? Baiting cats is still in the trial stage so the fencing and relocating options sound the most expedient. Is there a green army corps in the NT yet? Show em how to build cat and dog proof fences. An increased bounty for cat and dog pelts nationally also. We have had success with rabbit proof and dog proof fences, we can do it on a large scale now too

TWENTY SIX years! Time to extract the digit. Are Territory politicians capable of acting? Are Federal politicians capable of acting? All that is required is the will. We need to lift our game here, more correctly our politicians need to show  initiative and action.Good on you Hairy for standing up for your marsupial cousins! I initially thought the proposal to allow hunting of ferals (animals that is) in national parks was a good one, but the Shooters Party just wanted the right to go there rather than do organised culls. I still think concerted hunting efforts are desirable. We have "Clean up Australia " day, how could you market a culling campaign?Hi Roger, this is an issue I am familiar with and it is not being exaggerated. This problem is critical in the Top End at present and that is why John has written the article. The cat is a very effective predator and feral cats are widespread in most parts of the country. A domestic cat can adapt easily to most environments unfortunately.

I understand and agree with what you are saying, there are morons out there unfortunately. But the cat is a huge killer of wildlife and is killing off marsupials at an alarming rate. The problem is that feral cats are very hard to control cheaply and easily. I love cats too and a desexed cat is always an asset on a farm, but yes, they are environmental vandals.I won't watch it anymore for the same reasons. I am curious to know if question time changed after it became televised. Barry would have a good idea.A lot of smokers still rationalise that they have paid for their extra burden on the health system "up front", but I'm now firmly convinced otherwise. An excellent article.A couple of facts for you Greig. There has been a 15mw wind farm with storage operating in Hawaii since 2011. A 36mw wind farm with storage under construction. 

Another is well advanced in planning, with construction to begin in 2015 in Wyoming and due online in 2013. This one is 2.1 gigawatts and yes, it has storage. It is being touted as the "Hoover dam project of the 21st century". It will provide most of Los Angeles power.
But wait, there's more! Renewable energy in Spain, Germany, Denmark and India reached unsubsidised price parity in 2013.

P.S. There is no need to look at storing wind energy until its share of total production exceeds 20%.Why do you insist that CO2 levels and the rate of warming show a linear correlation?And Australia, the hottest and driest continent on the planet?Bob Carter was exposed in 2012 as being on the payroll ($1667US/month) of the Heartland Institute as "part of a program to pay 'high profile' individuals who counter AGW". He admits this. Carter also assumes that co2 and temperature rise should show a consistent linear correlation.The last time co2 levels were at 1000ppm(20% higher than your 800ppm was during the Early Eocene Climatic Optimum which was 50 million years ago. At this point temperatures were 13c higher. Sea levels were 65metres higher because the ice sheets had completely melted. Sounds like a scenario alarmists warn of as worst case scenario.

The IPCC states that neither drought nor cyclones will increase in frequency, in fact cyclones are predicted to decrease by one third, but will increase in severity. If a region becomes hotter or drier then inevitably bushfires will increase.Spain has a huge solar plant that can provide baseload for 4-5 days. Energy use peaks in the middle of the day, when the sun is shining. There was a good breakthrough in recent weeks with a new  battery proving very efficient (lithium, lead and salt water). 

Electricity has only been harnessed in the last 100 or so years, do you honestly think we can't figure this out? Smart meters, more efficient air-con and other appliances, pumped hydro, wind energy stored as compressed air (already happening), electric and hydrogen powered cars. It'll happen. Technology invariably advances and improves.They certainly didn't get a mandate to not act and they weren't given one to scrap or wind back the RET either. I notice the direct action proposal has 10% support. I would advise this government to hit the reset button on climate policy but I am sure I would be wasting oxygen.

Today I had to suffer Alan Jones on the radio at work. He was railing against wind farms and wants the RET scrapped. The propaganda continues.We could get the army to paint them camouflage green!The truth is that they scrutinised several thousand peer reviewed, published papers over the previous decade (ie: virtually all) and then contacted the authors with a single question, "do you believe climate change is caused by man?" 97% said yes. The survey was compiled by several universities on 3 continents. 

The scholar button should always be used when researching AGW, it blocks out those sites sponsored by the Heartland Institute for a starter.
 
If you are the same Bulldust who suggested the term "climategate" on the site operated by Willard Watts the weatherman ( which was established by and continues to be sponsored by the Heartland Institute, a fact Watts acknowledges), you have either been sold a big fat juicy lemon or went on the payroll.This comment is called a logical fallacy. All we need to do is pollute less and we will need to give up nothing. I think it is a fair assumption that most of "them" have taken steps to reduce their carbon footprint.

TA is widely criticized for being in the pocket of vested interests and stalling the transition to renewables, not for causing a lifestyle.It was 12,000 peer reviews papers, published between 1991 and 2011. They found 8,500 to email and 1,200 responded. This is the Cook survey. Each paper in this survey was independently rated twice. The survey received no funding and the workers volunteered.

Another survey was conducted in reverse, searching for dissenting papers. It found 24 out of 14,000. This was the Powell survey

Another studied the abstracts (summaries) of 928 papers between 1993-2003 and found none that rejected the consensus position.

You appear to be partly talking about the Oreskes survey but are distorting the figures wildly. That one recorded 77 of only 79 respondents. The average response to surveys of this type is 10% or less.

Consensus has always been over 90% and has always increased, hence each IPCC report stating "increased certainty" until last years report which said " AGW is unequivocal".
