"...they are negligent if they put themselves in a situation where they endanger themselves."

You mean in the same way that some posters on the Drum expose themselves to the danger of public ridicule for their opinions, or ability or lack there-of with spelling, or their overflowing levels of compassion or total lack of compassion; or their ability to see through the propaganda that is either rife or not depending on the version of the truth one subscribes to or not.

And there was me thinking that true "negli-gents" were a bunch of negligee wearing cross dressers who had the balls to go out dressed 'like that' in public...The 28+ people killed on MH17 were Australian citizens/permanent residents coming home.

Reza Barati was a foreigner wanting to get in to somewhere that wasn't his home - yet.


So; if you lost a family member as they were on their way home, would you be more likely to display greater concern for them than say somebody you don't know at all who you find out was wanting to come and knock on your door in the hope you'd put them up?

It's all well and good to be self-righteous and pompous about how "this event has been dealt with compared with that event", but in the end; if it can't pass the simple test of "now if this was my own home, my own family being faced with these exact circumstances but on a scale that relates much more personally", then it's just politically motivated obfuscation or egotistically motivated fantasy that's invented purely in the name of grandstanding in order to score political points.

Sure: one's heart goes out to anyone who loses their life in such a way; much like my heart goes out to homeless Australians who lose their lives in ways that don't even get reported or cried over like the loss of one asylum seeker in a detention centre's demise does.

There's problems much closer to home we ought to be concerning ourselves with before we go pointing fingers over the fate of Reza.

If compassion doesn't start at home, there's zero point in trying to start it away from home!!!!"Do we only vote for the verbally illiterate?"

Is there a choice otherwise these days?" Although there is also a chance the separatists did it by mistake."

Nothing like a softly spoken after thought!!!  

Hope nobody notices it after the shouted prelude is the usual policy behind such a literary creation. Then if the finger gets pointed by some equally inept buffoon at the main contention - in this case, your total support of whatever Russia or those who support Russia say or will say because in your estimation Russia has nothing to gain while everyone else who's picking on poor ole mudda rusher, clearly has!! 

And just to cover the bare and highly publicly displayed buttocks you've presented in the first part of your post; just add a whispered concession that you really believe about as much as any punter who "knows for sure" that they've laid their hard earned cash onto a "sure thing", that if the "sure thing" breaks down before it gets to the finishing post, you can always point out how you did say there was always "a chance"...
"blame the separatists which Russia supports".

Ahh... So clearly Russia would want to distance themselves from a wanton act of some buffoons that they (Russia) figured they could control through the provision of that support.

So ultimately if Russia didn't support the buffoons who pulled the trigger, the buffoons would either have to accept the situation of being part of the Ukraine, or pack up their stuff and head off to live in Russia - who may, like the present Abbott government and being of course an independent Nation without any real obligation to them even if they did 'support' them previously, turn them back like 'true humanitarians' rather than opportunists who'd use a situation to inflame matters in order to achieve their won nefarious ends!

Given that simple fact of "support", whatever form the "support" takes, there's no obligation upon me as the author of my comments to provide any information either proving or disproving anything.

Russia clearly supports the separatists.  The fact Russia is now finding out it doesn't 'control' them is it's problem. Defending them doesn't help anyone, least of all the relatives of those who've paid the ultimate price for the vanity and power hungry games of those who just can't accept the fact that their empires are crumbling."Tony abbott certainly can't be accused of 'pulling a stunt' nor
being 'not pure of heart'."

Er... gag, cough, err, chuck... "Oh dear... spew" - chunder...

You're surely being 'ironic' aren't you phil?

If not you might need to have what you think is your eyelashes seen too, as they may actually be shag pile coverings keeping a lot more than just dust and other particulates out of your peepers and as a consequence preventing the true aspect of things reaching your brain...For some reason, Annabel's article reminds me of those post life speeches given after some verifiable A-hole has died, that sound like 'sweetness and light' 'homilies", rather than realistic appraisals.

As a good mate of mine says; "the simple act of dying doesn't turn an A-hole into a flaming saint!!"... Yet; it's clear that there's quite a few bleeding hearts out there in the World; and here in Australia who don't mind twisting reality to take the strain off their own brains.

While Tony may not have died; it's pretty clear that one simple act that can't truly be laid at his feet, and out come the fanfares of his nobility.

A real conspiracy theorist would - upon looking at the available data; be quite withing their rights to contend that MH17 was brought down at the behest of Tony Abbott, who knew that he'd be able to ride the crest of the wave of support if he merely pretended to look "strong" whilst others appeared to be scrambling for answers/leverage/credence...

"Right back at you; but only several times over"..."political expediency has won over justice now that the yanks have decided it is all just a big mistake... the australian government will follow suit and damn the 28 aussies who died!"

Oh really?!!!  Talk about jumping to conclusions!!

I read the item regarding the "U.S. intelligence report" and got quite a different take on it's implications.

Sure; Australia may follow the U.S. lead, but I doubt it'll alter the desire of the families or our government officials (regardless of whether they be T.A. or not) from obtaining some degree of 'justice' for the victims, as equally as I doubt it'll dissuade those families of MH17 victims elsewhere on the planet from receiving their own government's support in obtaining 'justice' of some sort to help in some small way to account for their loss.

If the U.S. recognises that the pro-Russian separatists were ill-trained/trigger happy numpties, it doesn't mean the U.S. is agreeing with Putin.  In fact; it means one has to be even more concerned that a leader like Putin is prepared to back such numpties, and rather than be more aware of just who is using the support he provides he's only intent on the goal that the numpties he supports can give to him.

If anything such a viewpoint puts Vladimir even more in the frame...  He becomes a leader who wants to bring back the former USSR, and yet he doesn't even have control of the loons he's handing really dangerous stuff to!!  Yikes!!"Because, unlike cigarettes, it's possible to con(s)ume alcohol safely."

I'm wondering how it's possible to consume a cigarette via a method that's different from that with which alcohol is consumed, i.e. orally - or for the fools out there (perhaps); nasally... because rectal/penile/vaginal consumption I'm sure has been proven beyond inadequate for the consumption of such substances regardless of their popularity as orifices in certain forms of pornography for depicting the ingestion of various substances.

And while the ear/s could present a possible orifice of consumption, they like the tear ducts, present a way less satisfactory means of ingestion than the good old gob.

So are you suggesting the gob isn't 'safe' when it's a cigarette being consumed, but it is when it's alcohol?

Boy... Most smokers ate least admit ciggies aren't exactly good for you!  Seems like the danger of alcohol is the amount of delusion it engenders amongst it's consumers, regardless of which bodily orifice it enters the body through!!!!"it doesn't provide ANY positive impact upon a person."

The benefit a drag on a ciggie gives, is the relief of the desire to do some not so nice things to the sort of people who make comments from you I've quoted above.

People who are sick and tired of being preached to by brain dead numpties get much relief and satisfaction from a drag on a fag.

I for one, would prefer they have such an outlet for their frustration...  certainly when considering the alternatives they'd be left with if the Nanny State keeps on taking ever more away."But all the laws that you support to restrict my actions (not that I smoke and only drink on social occasions) affect me."

They only affect you when you or I or anyone else for that matter is "in public".

Inside your own fence/walls, you are free to exercise your freedom to behave like a twerp if yous so feel inclined.

Sure there's gonna be organisations/'Governments that feel that beyond the fence or inside the walls is still their domain to control; but that's what the citizenry must be vigilant in defending, lest it become subservient.

Sure; the majority of citizenry hope that their fellow citizens are decent people behind their own closed doors - and generally speaking, nearly every living thing would prefer to live in peace rather than being constantly nibbled on the butt... however, it's become apparent that the 'boundary pushers' of the human race have in recent times seen the poor education of their fellows as an excuse for not only trying to push the boundaries for their own benefit, but in getting away with the most outrageous affronts that one human being can make to so many of their fellows.

So, please don't pretend that ALL laws are designed to restrict you. It is disingenuous and beyond deceptive to even attempt to persuade the less intelligent and therefore gullible amongst us to believe your invention."The first question I guess as well is does the government really need this information to keep us safe."

C'mon the yank; you know the answer to that before you even asked it!!  Which by the way makes your question rhetorical... so despite the rhetorical nature of your question; I will respectfully provide the response I'm sure you knew it would receive - namely; the Government (actually all Governments who feel the need for this sort of information) don't need it to keep "US SAFE"... they need it to keep themselves safe!!!

That's the way it's always been, and in the age of "me, me , me" it's never been truer!!!
Hey!!!  

Don't blame the U.S. for something our own knuckle heads have created!!!  

Sure, our dumb lot followed the lead like comatose sheep following the dag laden butt in front of them do; but they had the option not too!!!!

And having the option not too follow the rest like sheep is the important bit - because it tells us exactly how well equipped our home grown (or even highly paid to come here) so-called 'leaders' in every level of governance, whether it be in business or not, have failed to show any of the qualities they expect us to believe they have in spades - namely, flexibility, adaptability and creativity.

They wouldn't know creativity if is smacked them over the chops repeatedly, while yelling "I'm Creativity!!! Get it!!"

We've been failed in every way by those whose only concern has been the creation of their own lifelines if things went south.  And now they're not only being seen as going south, they patently are going south, the one thing we can all guarantee is that things aren't about to change in a hurry, because the options to choose from for alternatives are abysmal.

Things are looking good - like NOT!!!"Throw out the agreement and do a Chinese government style reverse negotiation. This is absolute madness and who else but the Labor/Greens could put
the country into such a mess."

Answer: All the preceding Australian Governments.

As for your "do a Chinese Government style reverse negotiation" comment; I couldn't agree more - but that would entail accepting something that I dare say would be anathema to somebody who clearly believes in the "evil of the extreme left"... but I suppose desperate times call for even the most 'rusted on' supporter of 'business' and 'contractual obligations' to accept the "unacceptable"!!"It's not the content, it's just where you have been, so to speak."

And there you have the words of a technological boof-head!!

Tony and Malcolm are equally inept in even the most basic comprehension of digital technology.

And here they are speaking as though they've got a clue when they're clueless!!

Ah yes... "We won't use the keys to the kingdom; we'll just fondle them a bit!"

And the fact people reading the responses on this blog probably have about the same clue if not less than Tony and Mal and George and in fact, every member of the LNP from what I've seen of their pronouncements on the subject of digital technology, is equally scary!!!!

Ah... for the record, where you've been is exactly the same as "the content" when it comes to your digital footprint!!

If you have a website, ask your ISP for your websites 'stats'.  They'll provide you with details of visitors to your site. If you want a really detailed report of the visitors to your site, they can provide it - right down to addresses, other web browsing stats for that visitor so you can target those who might be more open to marketing from you etc...

Now that was something i got from my ISP on request in the Nineties!!!  Imagine what sort of 'data mining' capabilities are out there now!

So; the bottom line is, if they know where you've been they know the content and can visit the content for themselves if they wish to expand their portfolio of evidence against you - if you ever become a 'target' for them.

How do you become a target for them? 

Just give them enough of a sniff, even if it's an honest mistake sniff, and no amount of excuses or brownie points from being a rusted on butt licker will save your sorry butt cheeks from the flaying they'll get at the hands of those who are ready and raring to go once they can get their hands on some "evil doers"!!!"The whole lot is being recorded, as we'll find out in a few years time."

Ah... 'Metadata' is a clever way of encapsulating "the whole lot", including the lot that even the user doesn't see!!

And because there's so many ludites who have covered their tracks like so many of our illiterate have covered their illiteracy with angst laden instant responses to anyone or anything that might 'blow their cover' out there - not just within the LNP's ranks, but the ALP's ranks and the general public's ranks and even the ranks of professions like IT... it's no surprise that we get a P.M. flanked by the Attorney General talking about something he hasn't got the foggiest about as though he does.Whoa!!! there Oaktree!!   Don't be so hasty!!

A comment like that might just be the 'red flag' that'll lead to a metadata search of your browsing history, that'll no doubt have included visits to sites that have had ad links to manufacturers, traders etc, who via convoluted and almost impenetrably complicated digital pathways you may not be aware of (but "they" are!!) with distant and obscure and almost unprovable associations with some distant relative of a member of some organisation or other that's on the "prohibited organisations register of Australia".

So; have you checked out ALL of the organisations that are on that there register?  I don't have access to the full list, but I do know it's been a long and changing one - more changed in terms of additions rather than sheddings however."Only cowards give it up for security."

I'm sure there's plenty of people who don't think of themselves as cowards who have well and truly given up their freedom to individuals or groups that promise them security.

Then again it's probably the fact that they don't think, rather than not thinking of themselves as cowards - but saying that out loud these days is seen as being 'a bit nasty'; rather than seeing it as merely stating the plain truth.

Which of course makes people who do think, wonder what motivates the individuals or groups who 'offer security' to those who would mindlessly hand over freedom, because it can't always be cowardice on their part. 

And even if cowardice played a part in forming their motivation to garner power over those they pretend to offer 'security' to, it's the sense of domination over those they have subdued with 'superior' intellect/skill/cunning/deviousness, that assuages their cowardice and emboldens them to even greater heights of elimination of things that might stand in their way when it comes to total domination of those they pretend to be protecting.

Maybe the real cowards are those who know what's going on and don't do or say anything about it!!!!
You need to be secure in your own liberty before you have real liberty, so imposing supposed security, is a false enforcer of liberty upon those who have no idea what true liberty is."...who don't really care whether we have here a democratic government or not."

I beg to differ on one minor but perhaps salient point Ivanov Affair... namely they care about imposing their version of what they reckon democracy ought to be for the Australia they believe they could create if they had a free reign to do so.

Hence they feel they are 100% justified in doing whatever it takes to bring their version of democracy to Australia even if it kills us!!

In that regard; they're not dissimilar from many of the people commenting on the Drum's forums... Who'd have thought that reading some of the comments on this here forum, would give one an insight into the brains (or lack there-of!!!)  of so many of our 'leading' politicians.  Scary isn't it when you think about it!!      :-)
" is this any less important ?"

Well, you know and I know that it isn't any less important... but sadly there are people out there who are - shall we say; incapable of putting two and two together, so when they hear or read or watch anything to do with "racism"; they automatically identify racism with "white Anglo-Australian male" even when the offender is female or non-Australian or not even an Angle or a Jute or a Saxon; let alone a former Briton!!!

I grew up with indigenous friends, Greek background friends, Asian friends, and just plain friends because that's how I - as a honky-whitey convict background whitey, was not only brought up to view other people as, but also because that's my nature.

I soon discovered there were biased, prejudiced and paranoia loaded individuals of every gender/racial/religious/age  and geographical background...  

So many Greeks hate the Turks with a vengeance we can barely even comprehend and don't mind using foul Greek terms when shouting abuse at Turks they see on our streets.  

Should that be stopped? 

Should we as Aussies tell them to "Hey mate, take a chill pill!!  This is Australia, so you can leave that Old World hatred back in the Old World and make this a decent place for everyone to live in instead of trying to turn it into a hate and violence loaded cesspit like where you've come from; or maybe you'd prefer here to be just like there; in which case WHY DID YOU LEAVE THERE IN THE FIRST PLACE?!!!!" like I did to some of my friends when they did it.  They maybe didn't like hearing the truth, but they sure recognised the reality of what was behind my reaction - namely, Australia - if it represents a 'New Start' for these people like they say it does ought to be respected by actions that demonstrate that our land is in actual fact a 'New Start', rather than just a more peaceful place they can regroup from before letting rip with the same old hatreds!!!

You don't need to know a foreign language, to know the intent of the words...

Of course; I've also witnessed the yellow bellied nature of some of my fellow Aussies when faced with these sorts of situations in public.  They'd rather hide behind their news papers and hope "it'll all just go away".

Well guess what?!! It won't, unless more of us take the sort of stand our ANZAC forebears would expect us to take!! So is their example to go completely to waste on generations of cream-puffs who pretend to be tough, but are jeelo inside when it really comes time to stand up for what is 'right'?  Methinks they'd be turning in their graves right about now...There's only one person in this whole affair that I've seen who is truly 'innocent' and he's also the only one who smiles without artifice or intention of any kind.

And yet, he's the one who's going to have to cope with reading all of this stuff that's been written about his existence once he grows older...

It's as if everyone is more concerned about themselves than the one person they ought to be concerned about.

Perhaps it says more about the sort of World we live in and the sort of world we are bringing infants like Gammy into than it does about Gammy.Strike One...  PPL

Strike Two...  Reinstitution of British Imperial honours system

Strike Three... Knee jerk "anti-terrorist" legislation that's been about as thought through as the invitation list of a five year old when choosing who to invite to their Birthday party the day before the party... Guaranteed to be simplistic, undiplomatic and destined to have repercussions that will be left for more astute and mature minds to correct - if they ever can, that is!

Regardless of what it is; I have a 'three strike' policy.  As I've demonstrated above, Mr Abbott, has clearly "struck out" as a leader worthy of steering the future course of this country.

There is quite a difference between being 'decisive' and 'impetuous'. Clearly many LNP supporters don't know the difference and are seduced into believing that making policy "on the run", like Tony has demonstrated he does is nothing like the "policy on the run" style of government they condemned in Kevin Rudd; despite the evidence under their noses that if it's not the same, it's probably because it's way worse!!!

If Australians wish to keep Mr Abbott at the plate way beyond the three strikes he's already had, then more fool them... because he's such a bat and plate hogger, that he might just declare himself in the ultimate strike display, "batter for life".  

And so the end begins....So did my father and his father Alfie... but guess what?!!  

Their experiences didn't leave me or my ex-army brother with the same highly evident chip on the shoulder that you patently have.

My father and grand father killed soldiers of enemy forces as members of the AIF.  

They mixed with members of those same enemy forces post the major conflicts and even enjoyed the company of those they would have taken shots at or charged with bayonets fixed if they had met on the battle field years before...  

I am proud not only of my grand father and father's military efforts and achievements in the respective World Wars they fought in; but also of the example they both set for my brother and myself of the sort of humility and capacity to accept people as people regardless of what their leaders expect of them; or even force them to do in the name "of their country".

They both understood that "the fighting man" regardless of the side they were on, was more likely to agree with the soldiers on the 'other side' that the leaders were the ones who ought to be shoved into the ring to duke it out, rather than risking their lowly butts for a cause that really didn't deserve the price of so many lives to be laid down for it - but they also knew that once it was started, there wasn't much to be done to stop it until it was all over, so they did their 'jobs'.

They certainly would never have been so gloating of "kicking the Krauts butts" like you are - and as actual combatants, they'd have had far more right to be than some modern keyboard hero flaunting their beyond slathered on patriotism that's as sickening to see as the sort of trowel applied makeup that some people wear as though it makes them "absolutely fabulous", rather than laughably pathetic...According to Mr Abbott and his government, our Nation has a "financial crisis"; yet it can afford his PPL scheme?!!!

In the light of such a crisis, does the PPL sit comfortably with John Howard's assertion that "They want to be satisfied it's in the national interest ... They also want to be satisfied it's fundamentally fair."?

Methinks not.

Yet Tony seems to believe it does... or perhaps more to the point, he knows it sits well with his daughters' future financial security when reproducing."Why start a war that you know you are going to lose."

Because if you're going to lose anyway, it's better to put up some sort of a fight than go without even a whimper!!

Sheesh...  Some folks clearly have zero concept of what 'self respect' entails.

And sure; it's all well and good to expect people to do as we tell them to do - especially because we always know how right we are and how wrong they are; but just once, a measly, inconsequential one little ole time - which compared to the every other time, 'the hordes of times'... is it not possible to conceive of the idea that other people might just feel that they too are right all the time, or that they see themselves as deserving of the sort of respect you expect for yourself all the flaming time?!!!

And why shouldn't they eh?  What makes us, you, me always the ones who deserve respect? Why are we always allowed to see ourselves as 'right', while they are not?  Because they aren't right? 

Talk about self-opinionated prigpery if that's the case!!!! 
Such a perspective would be the epitome of testosterone fueled - yet totally unjustified, mindlessly juvenile machismo!

It would be the denial of everything that has brought the human race ALL of it's most profound achievements, because such testosterone fueled machismo represents the grandest level of individualism that humanity can provide - namely that one person embodies everything to be admired; and by extension admiration of everything that individual espouses must also be right, and right without question... while co-operation and the ability to allow the rightness of the individual to become secondary to the achievements of the many, where acknowledgment of success/rightness is not assigned to merely one individual, but to all of those who achieve the common goal.

Hence, the modern world which owes it's post WWII desire for peace to more than the mere threat of total destruction that nuclear weapons represent - it owes it to the spirit of co-operation, that is unheard of and unseen in the culture of machismo leaders that has flourished now that the generation that lived through the WWII years has largely died out or has left the 'fields of influence' in the hands of the self-opinionated little prigs who look into the mirror and see themselves as the living embodiment of all that is right and wonderful and others should emulate; rather than the incompetent little testosterone overloaded defectives of the human race that they more accurately are."to whom do we devote the most credence?"

Human historical precedence indicates the most credence is placed in the claims of "the winner", given most history is written by them; although, given in human historical terms a winner who wins by totally eliminating (i.e. killing/slaughtering) all of their opposition in order to become "the winner" is usually very lonely and through the lack of anyone to dominate having bumped off everyone who might have posed a threat to their winning; they also bumped of all those they would 'rule' having become 'the winner'; they are not so able to record their own history...

Of course, becoming "the winner" by conquering your foe, may make you feel good because you've now got a whole pile of former enemies cowering at your might, but once you're gone, they get the chance to re-write history, so while it may be true that the winners get to write history; that's only really true while the winners are still winners and grinners; not once they've lost their grin and their winner podium through natural attrition or just plain incompetence.

Now there's also those who would argue that the most credence is given to sexy young ladies who are attractive enough that they could tell people (blokes mainly, but blokes clearly feel they run things) any line of B.S. and be believed totally...

I guess you could take your pick really.

The only real truth is that the truth is the most unlikely thing to given credence.
"a pulitzer prize winner"

So a "pull-it Der" prize winner must surely be worthy of unquestioned integrity eh?

Maybe for the "pull the other on it plays Jingle Bells" prize winning 'story'.

That's what Pulitzer prize winning authors do you know...  Write "stories"!!! They might call themselves "journalists", but they're just story writers, and the more copies their stories help to sell the more likely they are to win awards.

But hey, whatever makes you sleep sounder at night knowing that it was a "Pull-it-and-see" prize winner who confirmed your already known knowledge about what did or didn't happen here, there or everywhere - is fine by me... and say "Hi" to nurse Rathced for me too!!"finding a job required a lot of effort."

Bet you apply the same principle to 'scoring' with the 'babes' eh?

What happens when you get knocked back?  

I'm sure you don't speak kindly of those who have clearly - or at least as far as you'd see it anyway; failed to fawn all over you because of the effort you put in to bothering the heck out of them when they'd probably prefer you just went away..."...those that don't will forever be envious of those that do."

Speak for yourself buddy!!
Malcolm a Hornblower?  

Only if you mean on his knees in front of Rupert!!  

He's clearly just another corporate paid off patsy - and yet there's still plenty of Aussies out there who think he's the better of two weevils!!

Mal's surname says it all really - despite it's lack of the most appropriate two letter preposition of "to" after the 'turn' part of his name..."Everybody in the chain needs to make some money. "

I'm sure that'd be your reasoning for taking selfies and plastering them all over cyberspace!

You honestly believe that the making of money is really the ONLY motivation behind every last bit of digitally available content?

And "hang on!!"!!

If EVERYBODY in the chain NEEDS to make money, then the consumer - who is just as essential to "the chain" as the producer, also needs to make a return rather than being the mindless cow being milked - or does your reasoning only stop at those links of the chain you recognise given your biased blinkers?

Methinks the later...As someone who not long ago worked for a media organisation, where I witnessed the activities of journalists involved in contact with political parties, political staffers and politicians, I'm not surprised at all about what happened in regards to the 'dictaphone'.


What the general public don't realise is the degree of control a politician's staff CAN have.  Not ALL political staffers have such control, but some sure do - just like some parents not only try but succeed in having control over their kids lives.

How do we know when we're voting for someone who is actually just a puppet of the staff who are supposedly employed to act on behalf of the politician, just like any employee is expected to do?  Well; we don't!!  

You just have to hope you can spot someone who's 'under the thumb' through their body language or slip-ups.

As for the specific Victorian dictaphone episode the opinion piece references... 

All I can say, is that some of the political staffers I met/saw/came into contact with simply by being part of a media organisation; I wouldn't have trusted with anything I cared about!!  My impression from contact with them, was they're opportunistic, paranoid piles of the worst that humanity contains.

Just like employers rely on their "human resources" officers/department to assess job applicants to find out whether someone really is going to be the right person for the job, politicians depend on their staff to find new staffers, so it can well be a situation where an outrageous white anter puts another outrageous white anter on the staff!!

As for the journo's I worked with... Well; let's just say they were to a fault "Gung-ho!!", brazen, full of themselves, and just as prepared to do whatever was needed to either get a 'Award winning' story or make sure they got Page 1 headlines, as the political staffers were in their own sleazy way in their efforts to achieve their ends.
Well Ann... sometimes you do get to see a few of them; like when they decide they're sick of 'minding' their puppet/s and they reckon they could do a better job, so they run for office themselves - usually starting at regional party office or local government/council level at first, before giving State level politics a go.  

Either that or they end up in the spotlight after they've been picked up for something like drink driving...

Mind you; one shouldn't be too harsh on the 'puppet masters'... They are after all doing what any decent respectable parent would do for their child; either protecting it from what could be deemed attacks, or guiding it in directions they know are better all round - or so they reckon.

Human nature is after all, what human nature is. It's usually pretty "Oh my God!!"; but, on the odd occasion it can redeem itself... 

Just don't hold your breathe waiting for redemption from those in or associated with politics, which is pretty much everyone.   :-(From my what I understand of "recording conversations by a journalist for future reference in the production of accurate reportage", the journalist must first obtain the permission of the interviewee - or in the case of politicians (who are so excessively busy they need the staff they've got to look after such matters), the permission of the representatives agent who has been authorised by the interviewee to provide permission.

So... it can be a bit of a grey area for politicians, given they might well have - at some point outside their limited spans of memories, given verbal permission either on a whim or in a moment of weakness to a 'press secretary' or 'senior staffer' or whatever title they like to stick on their plastic tags and desk name plates. 

All I can say, is that the journo's I witnessed organising "interviews" with the political representatives our paper was obliged to contact, very rarely did so with the politicians themselves and even if they did... the conversation still usually ended with an obvious "tee everything up with my da-da-da secretary/manager".

I must say that any interviews conducted by our journo's on the occasions when politicians would visit our offices, were ALWAYS prefaced by the "do you mind if I record your response to my questions regarding d-da-da?"

I don't recall one single pollie from any political party saying "no".  If anything; it was the staffers who accompanied the pollies on their visit who'd "respectfully request a word with... (their pollie) before we go any further" who would point out the possibility of the "dark side" of saying "yes".

I doubt there's a politician alive who doesn't honestly believe they "have nothing to hide" even if they know full well they do!

Then again; I'd bet London to a brick, that nearly every fly that's gotten caught on fly paper saw "nothing wrong" with landing on something so patently sticky.

Now: as for any of the "off the record" conversations the journo's I worked with, had with politicians... That's a different matter!!  They knew that if they recorded stuff they could be in really hot water!  

It depended on whether the information obtained 'deceptively' was in the "public interest" and the owner/editors were prepared to stand by their employee... which given the current owners/editorial biases, would be pretty unlikely these days, unless the info so deceptively garnered aligned with the political biases/aspirations of the media outlet ownership/management.Ahhh... it's pretty clear that being "unaware" isn't the same thing as "requesting no recording be made".

If such a request to "not place anything said on record" had been made, the politician would have every right to sue the journo and by extension the media outlet and it's owners/management.

Mind you; I do know of teachers who were recorded by students who deliberately goaded and harassed them into saying things that ended up being used to have the teacher fired from the teaching profession... all despite the illegality of the recording and the supposed inadmissible nature of the illegally garnered "evidence"!!

Humans can be pretty nasty creatures when we want to be."Outsourcing policy to experts won't do that..."

So how come the LNP does it eh?!!!  

You can't seriously believe that Tony Abbott and the members of the parliamentary wing of the LNP formulates policy!!!

I start to wonder about the motives of an individual who writes an opinion piece that attempts to convince gullible readers into going along with the idea that "the political left" has "the job" "to challenge this complacency" (of the electorate that is) while failing to acknowledge the role of privately funded "Institutes/think tanks/ (Ha!!!)organisations" in the formulation of right wing political policy that ends up becoming part of LNP creed.

What makes the author of this piece the Grand Panjandrum of what the "left" is supposed to do eh?  

His credentials at the bottom of the piece indicate he's nothing more than a Ph. D. student!!!  And here he is tossing around his two-bobs worth as though it's a million quid!!

If he represents the direction the Labor party should head simply because he's written so; the LNP can rejoice for donkey's years to come!!

Sure "ex-perts" are just formerly tight bodied hotties who now aren't, but that doesn't mean one should run along to a 'pre-pert' as though they're the font of all flamin' wisdom - especially when it comes to something like how a political organisation needs to develop it's policy!!

A commentary from nothing more than a wet behind the ears toddler with the all accumulated experience of a newly hatched mosquito...

At least the other blood suckers of the political system; like Latham, have had a chance to suck enough blood that they start to taste it's bitterness as well as it's on occasion sweetness. It taints their perspective on things just that little bit more acutely than those who are so keen to get their first taste of blood, that they are blinded to the dangers of not being alert enough."...Tony at least came up with the PPL scheme on his own."

And we are informed that Isaac Newton came up with the concept of gravity on his own - yet it was the apple that had to boof him on the noggin first!!

Perhaps Ms Credlin could shed some light on the matter.What "rings true" Jonathan, is that only idiots hear words without thinking about what they mean or imply.

For instance; Mr Abbott yesterday said "finding work should be a full-time job".

To the one dimensional individuals in our society; that'll make perfect sense, much like the rest of Tony's and the LNP's three word slogans do.  

The simple fact that the only "full-time job" humans (actually all living things!!) have had since the dawn of time - regardless of whether you believe God created the Heavens and Earth, or whether it's evolved as a series of random and chance events that have serendipitously arrived at where we're at now, is "to live life as best one can"...

Sadly; the sheer logic of the only "full-time job" being "to live life as best as one can", is lost on those who lap up every simplistic word that emanates from Tony Abbott's gob.

Any implication of 'other directions' that outcomes of implementing Tony's simplistic words could lead to, is merely "scaremongering" by 'leftist red-raggers who are clearly sweating bullets at just how Tone's is going after them' or showing' he's such a strong or determined leader' who 'we should all rally around'...

I recall such things being said by the enforcers the school bully used to get to go and do his dirty work... "You should back up so-and-so if they get into a fight with blah-dee-blah, or else you're on their side aren't you!!" or "don't ever say anything that might convince other kids that following so-and-so could get them hurt!! Doing that just makes you someone we might have to pick on!"

It seems the age of the bully has gone from the school yard, and into the world of Governance - and with the support of the kids who recognised how they could ride the gravy train off the back of the school bully's intimidation powered powers of persuasion, it's going to be - I predict; quite a long time before things change.

Ah... Good old Buckminster!!

If it wasn't for the geodesic dome, the conservatives of the world would have expunged from existence, all reference to Buckminster.

Clearly he needed to be more like Ayn Rand as far as they were concerned...I guess it'd be easy to see a throng of people gathered around a central figure as "rallying around the leader"... though another interpretation that's equally as viable would be that the central figure is surrounded by people they'd much rather not be surrounded by given they aren't there to support the central figure.

Just saying, that it's not the most prudent thing to go and jump to a conclusion about what the throng of people surrounding the character in the middle are actually up to!

It's tantamount to trying to force opinions to align with the one the giver of the opinion holds and wants others to hold as well.

In the vernacular of this here country; which just happens to be the English language; such an action of 'persuasion' would be termed "propaganda".

I'd hate to think the ABC could be a peddler of propaganda; especially given it's charter...
 
I guess political and economic pressure can bend even the finest of guidelines.Clearly, "what's next" for Tone's is to delude Australia's gullible into believing that "finding work should be a fulltime job!!"

I reckon that'd be about right for a right-wing British born conservative Jesuit son of a dentist who has plainly walked into too many right and left hooks to the head!!

If the Labor party doesn't jump on this latest piece of "Tony sucks sole after placing patent leather shoe firmly in mouth" for all it's worth; they deserve to cop a red hot political poker up their slack ideological rectums!!

To say "finding work should be a fulltime job", is a FAIL, FAIL, FAIL!!not only on every level, but also on the grandest scale!!

Even God knows that "Living life as best one can IS the only fulltime job!!"

If Tony reckons he's a Christian, then I'm God - and as such I now declare Tony the Anti-Christ!!!

Everything left in his agenda aligns perfectly in that instance with the actions of the Anti-Christ!!

Who'd a thought the Anti-Christ would end up leading Australia...  The Americans will be so disappointed."it would take a special kind of moron to deny the existence of 'push factors' in the displacement of populations."

Ravensclaw clearly finds a bullet up the butt less of a "push factor" and more of a 'daily enjoyment quotient'.

Not even hot lead could displace someone like Ravensclaw!Hmmm...  I wonder whether Ravensclaw would follow his own espoused creed if the only job he was offered was in a Jihadist Muslim owned and operated business in a suburb dominated by believers of 'the Faith' where conversion was a requirement of employment.

Strange how it's so easy to tell other people to take whatever job is on offer - but how when it comes to themselves, it's "Oh I've already got a job so I don't need to answer hypotheticals like that", or "such a situation would never arise in my case" etc, etc, etc.

Clearly Mr Jericho has shown that when it comes to separating fact from fiction on the issue of unemployment/unemployment benefits, even the reality of those who are the most qualified to respond - i.e. those who are forced to avail themselves of the so-called "social security safety net" is to be ignored or ridiculed by those who may as well declare their belief in magic and spontaneous creation of everything by a great big cookie monster in the sky, because in their minds black is white and whatever they say or think, is what is real...

Dear oh dear.  This country is in real trouble.So.. Just wondering; if the Government is proposing to 'subsidise' employers who employ those over 55 with a $10,000 payment - as I heard announced in a Fed Gov, radio ad last week...  

Does the $10,000 get paid 'up front' or after a period of time has passed, as my shop owning mate told me it will...  

He seemed; as a business owner, to be somewhat disparaging of an initiative that I held some small hope might be a move in the right direction, despite my misgivings about the desire of certain employers to take on an over 55 for the measly amount of $10,000.    

Sure; ten grand may well be enough to bribe a State or Federal politician, but to bribe a business to take on a person who, despite being very qualified and ready and able to work with more commitment than nearly every young person out there today, is much closer to the age of retirement under the present retirement age guidelines, let alone more at risk of the sorts of debilitating illnesses/injuries etc that can befall an older person with an amount that wouldn't keep your average "keeping up with the Jones" aspirant alive for more than a couple of months at most, given the cost of Foxtel and going out to restaurants nearly every night of the week and paying off the multiple cars and jet skis and the multiple overseas trips per year and the private education for the kids who everyone knows will become brain surgeons or prime ministers, let alone paying for the multiple negatively geared investment properties...

And if the 'business' doesn't get the payout 'up-front', how likely is a business going to be to put up with a bunch of over 55 foggarts taking up space when they'd prefer to either offshore to some India based slaves or bring in 457 visa holders who'd be much more profitable to employ despite the lure of $10,000.

I mean; even as the sort of person who leans towards empathy for my fellow human beings; as someone who can recognise the benefits of 'profit'; it's patently clear that the only reason you might go after the $10,000 is as a nice little 'tip' to top off the main course of feasting on the profit to be had by cutting your local "expensive" and aging workforce, in favour of off-shoring as much to the pittance paid overseas options, while paying lip service to the $10,000 "employ an oldie" scheme in order to get the cash before you replace the current oldie with a new one.

I know what I've written sounds like I believe most employers are opportunistic A-holes with about as much concern for their fellow Aussies as an Afghani based taliban jihadist has for infidels; but, I'd like to think that there's still some degree of pride in having a country where every citizen is not only employed but paid well enough that other nations look to us as what they'd like to be.

Will the carrot of $10,000 go some way towards achieving that or just be money going straight into the pocket"If you think people who have reached the age of 50 are like that, you must be crazy!"

Huh?!!!  What THE?  

I'm just wondering where I made a description of people who "have reached the age of 50" in my post you've responded to.

Like I've said many a time before; I am somewhat saddened that my time as a teacher in high schools did nothing to improve comprehension levels... then again I wasn't an English teacher, so any efforts I did make were bound to be but a mere ripple in an ocean of mediocrity...

Ah well; "them's the breaks" as they say! 

Mind you (and just to clarify the use of the English language in this instance, the word "you" as used here, is a generic addressing to non-specified individuals that could even include the author of the comment, rather than a specific and personal address to one particular individual); it appears many Australians of today aren't users of the English language, but users/creators of some bizarre self-determined version that has more in common with Pidgin.

Hmmm... And we want to send them out with resumes and CV's looking for jobs!!  Yikes!  Heaven help the poor sods who have to interpret the stuff that'll be put on a page!

ROFLMAO"Well, Steve, did you read anything in my post that I support this draconian government?"

Nope - but what's that got to do with the price of fish?

"...a teacher at 47. And now teaches full-time."

And good luck to him... though just because he did doesn't mean everyone else 47 and older can.  

I just hope that he doesn't end up like my friends who were long term full-time teachers in high schools, TAFEs and Universities. They believed they had tenure; until they no longer had tenure.

Even worse is the case of a close friend who has been told he has to now tell all those people he was responsible for employing (people like your 47yr old friend) that they're no longer required.  

He's decided to resign from teaching as a result of the effects of having to do the 'dirty work' of those who've decided all those courses that (when it suited them) needed staff/extra staff are now to be cut because of a change in political wind.

And recognising that once you're approaching 65 (forget misinterpreting it yet again as 50!!) we are all closer to the ends of our careers than the beginning of them - despite all the examples either you OR I can scrape up to counter the prejudices of ageists;  is no admission of a lessening of worth for older workers in the workplace.  

If anything, it's an argument for their worth, given the example they can be to those who have yet to face what is to come...  Sadly; the society we have today is much more inclined to bury what it doesn't want to see; and those who are now aged are something many people would prefer not to see because it's to powerful a reminder of where they're going to be - and before they even realise it too by the by; because those 'prime' years just seem to fly past!"a pox on both of the parties."

They'd just end up scratching each others backs even more then they do now if that became a reality Pete..."They won't have to go overseas for training then."

I think you're meaning they won't have to go overseas for "combat experience", rather than "training"...

It'd be the actual combat experience of rumbling some tanks through the heart of Canberra up to the steps of Parliament that would be what they'd get on home shores, rather than relying on our politicians sending them on some foreign 'police' type mission or "War on Terror" or some other big bad boggy-man type mission, in order to obtain the same combat experience.

One major difference they'd encounter here as compared to overseas, would be the lack of armed resistance from the general populace or any hastily organised local militias, given the lack of weaponry that the ordinary citizenry have, as well as the urbanisation of our populace - which means there's lots of us in very little space, and so few in rural areas, that it'd be very easy to take and hold the country if they got a mind to take it.

A military take over of Australia would be a breeze if the military ever formed a cohesive and top down led determination to do so.

My ex-Army brother told me of a few occasions in the past where it got close...  It's the stuff you're not supposed to hear. The kind of stuff that gets pollies shaking in their lilly-livered booties!!"Just the names and tie colours that have changed"

Well that, the gender and religious denomination or lack there-of despite the espousing of a religious denomination, as well as the level of ability in hiding what the body language tells those who are capable of reading it..."...those who fund the system..."

I hope you don't harbour delusions that those who run the system recognise you as one of those funders - let alone a "major" funder!!!

Boy; are some people in for a shock..."One feels that meniality is the point of this exercise."

Upon reading your comment arf; I realised that you were some way towards "the point".

I thought back to all those educators who understood that those Government 'initiatives' that so many ordinary Aussies sucked up like the sponges they are, when the push to have HSC students matriculate and continue straight into University, were nothing more than schemes to keep the young off the streets. A place where the dissolute and hormonal youth could do serious damage to their political careers.  Better to keep them in Institutions that could 'child mind' them!!

So; you've inspired some further thought upon expanding what is the 'point' of this latest political initiative... and I've come to the conclusion that like the "keep the youth off the streets by keeping them in schools/universities/colleges for as long as possible" initiative, this current plan is designed to tie the unemployed up so much that they won't have time to "hit the streets"!!

Keep the plebs occupied, even when they're unemployed, and they won't be able to revolt!!

Nothing worse for politicians of any colour than a revolting populace!Never ever heard the phrase "the bigger they are the harder they fall" Harry?

Clearly not given how big you see yourself in comparison to somebody you patently despise, given your disparagement.

I wonder whether you'd receive the same sort of disparagement from those you disparage with such egotistical ease, once you inevitably join the ranks of the unemployed?

I doubt it; because the rapidly swelling ranks of the unemployed have far more empathy towards their fellow sufferers than the zero empathy being shown by those who see themselves as 'sitting pretty' in their ivory towers that they think are impregnable, because unemployment "only happens to losers" and they reckon they aren't losers - until they lose that is."TGU: how many jobs are you offering unskilled teenagers at the moment?"

Also; how's about asking him how many jobs TGU is offering over 55's...And why is your's Peter?

Just because you asked it?  Talk about pompous!!

The question/s have relevance as a response to anyone who clearly has closed their eyes to the reality of a situation where the advance of modern technology - i.e. computers and robotics into the traditional workplace, have decimated the ranks of living breathing employees.

No amount of retraining is going to make a flesh and blood employee capable of competing with a robotic replacement in the manufacturing sector- or perhaps you'll be prepared to argue otherwise...

So; let's all retrain for the service industry sector- or better still, the legal sector.

It appears; certainly from some of the posts made on the Drum, that there's plenty of scope for replacing some of the current legal profession, with individuals who've garnered quite a bit of experience working in industry sectors that no longer appreciate the ability to "think on their feet" or "be inventive", and therefore haven't yet lost their humanity or compassion towards their fellow human beings.So Ricardo; how about

"Operation do the right thing and just die you out of work old bastards!"

Or my personal favourite:

"Operation make a slave workforce for the God-given Masters to kick like the slaves they are".

It's my personal fave because it sums up the attitude of the hardworking Massa's we have at the moment who are sitting back in their wicker chairs with their feet resting on the railings of the mansions their hard working slave owning parents built, while they sip on their chilled lemonades, and watch their overseers laying the whip into the pesky lazy slaves who need the lash constantly laid into them in order to lift their productivity to the level the massa reckons the slaves ought to be giving freely...

Ah yes; the freedom to treat your fellow citizens like the slaves you'd prefer them to be, given how incalcitrant and lazy they are if left to their own devices, rather than whipped into shape by Governmental decree!!  

Thank goodness we have a democracy, or else the slaves wouldn't have been as easy to hoodwink!!Yeah... you are right Dee.

As a former teacher I should have recognised that before offering any sloganised solution, it needs to be no longer than three words and each of those words needs to be mono-syllabic. 

Perhaps before anything we need to entrench and act upon the slogan "teach the dolts".

Sadly, the dolts don't see a dolt when they look in the mirror - they see a 100% success story,  who doesn't need to rely on anyone else, so why should they care about the whingers who are clearly losers if they whinge.

Of course when they whinge, it's fully justified because they're always right and it's everyone else's fault that they're whinging anyway.

No wonder the country has begun it's journey up the spout.John... You clearly seem to believe that all life needs is some 'tough' rules and everything ends up "just peachy" as long as there's a big stick used to enforce the 'tough' rules.

The fact that it's more often than not those people who do their darndest to follow "the rules" who end up getting shafted by the rules they've tried to follow is clearly way beyond your comprehension - as is the fact that any people who retain their unemployment benefits while not fulfilling the Government's stricter guidelines will either be so 'entitled' because those who are expected to administer such a system are 'jack' of having to do the dirty work of our present batch of snivelling, gutless and intellectually deficient politicians even as they themselves feel the yoke of redundancy around their own necks; or because they're the sorts of crims who'd be crims regardless fo whatever rules you or any other buffoon could concoct in the belief it's going to stop "rorting".

If you're working more hours in the hope you're going to keep your job - more fool you!!!!  

In the end, you'll end up on the scrap heap like so many of us who thought the same thing have found ourselves, because if the shareholders, 'business forces' determine that keeping you on; regardless of how little you earn compared to the hours you put in, is still "too much" or they might have to tighten their own belts a bit - you're going to go buddy!!

Forget loyalty to a long term employee. Forget commitment to fairness or honour or any old fashioned concepts that the generations before our's could hold onto when it came to tenure in the workforce.

Those days are GONE!!!  Get with the program John!!!  It's dog eat dog out there now.  You think being a brown noser is going to forestall the inevitable? Ha!!!!"The same way they do now, J. The job seeker reports to centrelink. Centrelink conducts random checks."

Ah yes... you just keep believing like a good little brown nosing line tower and forelock tugger, that the ever decreasing Centrelink workforce will just continue doing it's Governmental master's bidding.

"Because you must periodically attend a Centrelink office and present your documentation. If you've never been on New Start, you may not be aware of this, but that's part of how the system works."

Clearly you haven't had anything to do with Centrelink in recent times have you GJA - or should I say "Mr. More aware than the people you reckon you're more knowledgeable than"!!!

I haven't been to a Centrelink office for over 12 months. Everything is being driven online.
Centrelink face to face consultant numbers are being decimated as a result. 
The culture of "self help" that this Government and so many conservative minded individuals subscribe to, is being unleashed on Centrelink with a vengeance - and you clearly haven't got a clue!!
Oh, I've got a job GJA.

It's training all those elderly people in and around my general geographic area, who've been tossed on the scrap heap because they're considered "too old" to 'retrain', how to cope and live in the 'digital age'.

I actually help men and women who have dementia or alzheimer's; who have lost the will to live in the world we've created today, to cope with the changing world around them and to live on rather than buckle and die in the face of the pressure created by those who either don't care or are just so heartless that they'd prefer the elderly "do the right thing and just die".

I get no pay, nor recognition for doing the work I now do - I just get acknowledgment from Centrelink that I'm fulfilling my requirements to them.Hey Steve; here's a good one for you!!

I'm receiving newstart - having been made redundant a couple of years ago; and given I'm nearly 60, there has been nothing but sneering from places I've applied to for work... but now that I'm 'working' for a community based "Centrelink approved" provider of community support services, I'm considered 'employed' and therefore not placed on the unemployment statistics!!!

Good one eh?!!!   Then there's the ole "employed part-time/casual for more than 1hr per week" = employed enough to not appear on the unemployment stats deception as well.

I just love seeing all those people who write "there's only single digit % unemplyment in Australia, so there's plenty of work out there you bludgers, so get off your backsides and retrain to get one of the awesome jobs that clearly is out there!!"   They haven't got the foggiest about how the data is being manipulated.

Given they've got the time to write such patent fantasy, it's clear they either aren't working themselves - i.e. living off a pension or their investments, or they've got a job that's about as demanding on their time as being 'unemployed', or they're so closeted, that reality has passed them by and they're just living off the nuggets of info the media outlet their politics most ascribes too, provides for them.

I often regret mentioning I was once upon a time, a high school teacher, given the appallingly low level of intellectual exercise demonstrated on Australia's internet forums in current times, which I must have clearly contributed to by not instilling enough "think for yourselves for once" compulsion into the students I was responsible for.I think you will find Ms. Tran, that words are merely justifications for emotions that words cannot fully describe.

Even worse, is when the not very eloquent attempt to find a word or combination of words to encapsulate that which is almost impossible for even the most eloquent of wordsmiths to successfully or succinctly elaborate.

Sadly, it's often when the numpties try to make sense of the stuff they're feeling but find so hard to put into words, that terms like "terrorist", "illegal" and "queue jumper" get rolled on out,  because they come closest to defining what they feel is the injustice of those who don't do what they feel is "the right thing", while hiding behind the skirts of our National Government's policy on immigration/freedom of speech as they toss such terms around.

Clearly; as bad as some Aussies might think their lives have been or are; our Nation and it's inhabitants have never, ever been placed under the sorts of conditions or duress that far too many Nations on this planet have been placed under.

If it had, then the words used to describe those heading to our shores might just be tempered with a little bit more compassion - certainly by those who currently speak without compassion; but who would form the majority of those folks who'd bear the brunt of any nastiness if our country ever went through the sort of turmoil countries elsewhere have found themselves in.

In the end - "there but for the grace of God go I"; but to the not very intelligent of this here 'lucky country', "going there is something that could never happen hear mate!!"

Famous last words...  It's also worth remembering that Australia and the Australians of the generation who were involved in the Vietnam War, believed in their obligation to those they had left behind when they admitted defeat and pulled out.

This generation thinks itself above any obligation it may have because it backed the sending in of troops to certain countries that are now 'bleeding' the lifeblood of their own lands into other countries; simply because there are individuals amongst this generation who have no moral compass yet have attained the political and media limelight, who's simplistic amoral use of language appeals to the unsubtle individuals amongst us.    

Like the meerkat in that ad says "Simplez!!!"
"That's why economic migrants only move in certain directions."

You mean like all those Kiwis?

I suppose it also explains the exodus from our shores of all those 'entrepeneurial' types who feel they are looked after better in the U.S. or Europe by people who are more prepared to fund their careers/ideas/lives.

Fleeing from somewhere to somewhere 'better' obviously ain't just a "refo" thing that's applicable only to cashed up folks we can label "queue jumpers" or "crims" coming from war torn countries... but it just suits the narrative better to label the folks leaving your own country in order to seek fame and fortune "trail blazers" or "entrepeneurs" because we can't afford to see our own country as anything like any of those 'nasty' places that 'nasty' people come from.

And BTW; my reference to "there but for the grace of God" was not a reference to the Aussies of the past; it was meant as a literary reminder of where our very own country could be, if it wasn't for the determination of those past Aussie generations that we shouldn't loose our moral fiber, lest we become a country like those that the so-called "illegals" are fleeing from.

Surely it would pay not to be so arrogant as to believe such a situation "could never happen here"..."Stranded in a war zone we don't understand."

And there's people who do?!   

Maybe deluded loons with only half a brain who reckon they do!  Actually there's hordes of them who are only too happy to say what their vacuum filled craniums are telling them.

Not only that, I'd expect that there's not really anyone who actually really, truly beyond any doubt "understands" what's going on in any war zone, let alone places that aren't war zones!

There's plenty of self-styled "understanders" of what's going on who don't mind tossing their opinions around to those who are dense enough to pay attention - but that's the way it's been for humanity since we first left the cover of the trees...

None of the so-called "leaders" in this whole cavalcade of events has 'understanding' of what their actions will or won't do.  They might think they do; or hope it'll turn out as they expect, but just like taking a night-time dip in an overflowing septic tank has it's hazards that cannot be foreseen... so too doing anything in a place as unpredictable as a 'war-zone'; let alone the one that's been fermented in the Ukraine!!

So why in God's name are we attempting to discuss it here?!!  As if any of the self-styled experts who comment here will have any 'understanding' of the real situation... 

All it does is make the almost innumerable numpties from both sides of the 'fence' we have here in Aus. get hot under the collar.  Like that's going to do any flaming good!!"You do not need to be an Einstein to figure out that before you can even to begin to try to understand the end you first have to understand the beginning."

And you don't even need to be an Einstein or a Plato for that matter, to know that an understanding of the beginning won't prevent you from treading the path laid out from the very beginning, unless you are prepared to forget the beginning in the hope of a much better end.

:-)"You do not need to be an Einstein to figure out that before you can even to begin to try to understand the end you first have to understand the beginning."

And you don't need to be a Plato or an Einstein to know that understanding the beginning doesn't prevent you from following the course the beginning has set out if you are incapable of ditching the beginning in favor of a better end."what the law actually is there to do."

And that is?

Let's see how you go on that one eh Pete..."saving Australians zillions."

I gather the "zillions" you refer to will be the future equivalent of today's "millions", dependent on the inflation rate, which I believe you see as being also dependent upon the current political party that has control of Government and therefore (supposedly) the 'economy' as we head into an unknown future.

Either that or you're just exaggerating to try and make an overblown political point that's founded purely on conjecture and your own unfounded fears... unless of course, the present Government's policies gets inflation into the quadruple figure zone; in which case, "zillions" may be just what we'll need for a loaf of bread in a few years time!!!"There you go lefties, all your problems solved in one manic sweep through society."

Say "Hi!" to Nurse Ratched when you see her will you ardy...

Young people don't know what the saying a 'two bob watch' means; but I'm sure that my stating that you are as loopy as a two bob watch, might just give them a clue as to how a two bob watch couldn't keep time, and it's hands pointed willy-nilly all over the place - yet as a watch it still saw itself as being a competent time piece.

Clearly, your perception of the "left" or "lefties" themselves doesn't take into consideration those former entrepeneurs/individuals of extreme wealth, who have set up foundations to aid the poor - you know; people like Bill Gates or Chuck Feeney to name but just two.

I dare say, if you look up the meaning of the word philanthropist, you'll be shocked to discover that not only are there filthy rich people who help the poor without any desire for reward or acclaim from people like yourself (which goes some way to explaining why you don't have the foggiest about them), but who are also appreciated as being the decent human beings that they are by both sides of the political spectrum.

Besides, what sort of use would a human be, if they just chopped of their left side simply to prove how 'right' leaning they were? So of course the 'left' is - when it contains as many decent people as the right does; as accommodating of entrepeneurs as the right is."...something to do with 7 year old Australian kids..."

Australian only according to the passport and the happenstance of the place of birth; but not in the heart or mind.

So; why would some kid be not "of this place" in their heart and mind?

Why would they have such disdain for our country? Sure; the 'old man' would have had something to do with it... and the alarm bells about the Dad ought to have gone off long before there was any need for Tony to enact his grand plan to keep us safe!!

Sadly; those alarm bells would have involved Aussies of a mindset like your own, having the perception to notice the behaviour of the kid's old man, and recognise that it was symptomatic of the kind of person we could either do without in this country, or one who needed some serious restraint placed upon them if they were to remain here - but, clearly not only didn't that happen - it's even more obvious that "enacting laws" or "empowering the relevant Government agencies" isn't going to bring people with a lot more nouse than you or I have got, onto tackling the task despite the extra expense such action will cost.

And the even greater cost, is that once the already scaredy cat people who pretend they don't notice the kids coming from the totally closed up house where the father constantly drags the kids inside and doesn't allow any interaction with locals and there's just a constant aura of darkness hovering over the place, because they "don't want any trouble or to get involved", hand over the power to excise liberty just like that simply because they're too scared to deal with these kind of issues and people themselves - we all: even those who do have some gumption; end up having to fight even harder to get back what it took our ancestors so long to get for us...

But then; don't it always seem to go, that you don't know what you've got till it's gone..."There is a real and genuine terror threat"

There's ALWAYS been a real and genuine terror threat!!

Talk about "needing a history lesson"!!!  Humans have always dealt in terror!  We've always lived in terror!  Our earliest ancestors had far more constant threats of sudden and horrible death to face than we closeted little dearies of today ever will!  And it often came for them at night... Why do you think humans have such a 'fear of the dark'?  Because it was lovely and warm and cosy?

Of course the historical fact that "the speed with which U.S. forces were able to invade a country and massacre the people of Iraq's armed forces as well as collateral damage civilians - while using mass media to gloat about their superior technology and weaponry exploits should be enough to signal to any reasonable person", that there's never anything that one side ought to gloat over as though they have "supreme rightness" when what's being dealt is nothing more than death.  

Sure; we have to make a choice as to the side we ultimately have to choose... But don't expect the side that those of us who'd like to preserve some moral integrity and human dignity decide upon, to be slavishly and mindlessly followed like that which certain distasteful adherents see as the 'enemy' is followed, purely so they can assuage their own sense of guilt and thereby bury their sense of guilt in the wholesale slavish following of something they know they wouldn't unless they felt like everyone was doing as they did.

And that slavish following as a assuager of guilt by those who need to see they're surrounded by enough people that it makes them feel 'sure' about what they're doing, is exactly what Jonathan is on about in his article...

That you can't "get it", is proof that the person who needs to do some swatting on their history texts is one Lorenzo!!Amen brother!!!"Perhaps Australia should accept them as refugees?"

No!!!  

They need to learn to stand up to these bullies and thugs who wish to control every aspect of their lives... to the point where everything they do is monitored!!

How else will they ever be able to defend themselves?"...the poorest of the poor don't actually drive, for very obvious reasons, owning a car and maintaining one is very expensive."

And you reckon you "don't like Hockey"!  After a comment like that, you could be married to him!!  

Being hitched to him would go some way towards explaining the dichotomy between the two clearly elucidated elements of your post!!!

So; I dare say you also believe the poorest of the poor don't use computers either - for obvious reasons, given they're almost as expensive as cars to own and maintain; unless it happens to be a 'hot' machine with 'pirated' software eh?  I get the feeling you've "worked it out" that it's impossible to have the motor vehicular equivalent of a stolen computer and pirated software...

And hey! Let's face it, the Government isn't making it more and more necessary for even the most poor of the poor to rely upon the road system rather than rail or other forms of public transport... Like NOT!!!

I imagine that's just like you wouldn't recognise the poorest of the poor also being forced on-line (and thereby onto computer) by Government/s and business who are shrinking their 'analogue' services/presence in deference to a minimally staffed and centralized "do-it-yourself" web presence... 

Hmmm.  Why is it we never seem to hear or read the poorest of the poor telling everyone what the rich live like and what they can and can't afford to do, etc.?

Maybe they can't afford to be that arrogant, or that ignorant of their arrogance.
"Steve, try a bit less sarcasm and try using fact."

What's that aGuy? Do what you say rather than be true to myself?

Perhaps you took part in formulating the Government's policies if that's your approach to your fellow Australians expressing their opinions.

No doubt you'd have supported the (now dropped) proposed changes to 18c, based upon the fact that the conservative voices that are so easy to agree with reckoned such changes would allow "free speech" - yet when it comes down to it, any "free speech" that offended those pushing for the changes to 18c would cop exactly the sort of pompous and arrogant dismissal that you've just made to my expression of disapproval for Mr Hockey's limited assessment of the reality that faces so many of Australia's less well off.

I wouldn't expect you to be or say anything other than what you feel is 'right'; yet you have zero hesitancy in trying to put someone else - who you know not from a bar of soap; "in their place"!!

Well, here's a "News Flash!!" kiddo: there's more to being poor than your limited perspective... See!! There's an example of 'poor' right there!!  You don't have to be bereft of every last cent to be poor in many other ways!

And it's a fact that people who aren't monetarily well off, adjust what they spend on clothes, food, general groceries, other areas of expenditure in order to afford a vehicle and it's cost of running when they live outside of the suburban regions of the big cities, where public transport if it exists at all is either more expensive (cumulatively over the long run) or woefully inadequate in timetabling number and placement of stops - especially for the elderly who may actually have purchased their vehicle when they were younger and still employed/working.

That you have no concept of the fact that poverty doesn't come in one size, shape and form that fits your limited scope of perception is not my problem - it's yours: as well as those who have to try and survive with what little they have.

In fact surviving on what little they/we/I have means we don't really have time to worry about minor irritants like yourself...  So, have fun living the rest of your fantasy a Guy. I hope it doesn't turn to crud like it has for many other car owning former employees."You guys are totally out of touch with the real world not to understand the unfairness of this budget."

Get with the program (n.b. "programme" in the new better but less literate U.S. dominated world) the yank!!

Forget being in touch with "the World"!!  Be "in touch" with the important bits of yourself!!  

Give yourself a good feel up, because in today's World, you're the most important thing and everything else can just go hang!!

Gina told it like it is for the world of today, when she told us that we need to be more jealous of the filthy rich like herself, because she knows being filthy rich like she is is what everyone wants to be, so being jealous of her will mean you're more prepared to be the kind of non-empathetic, greed motivated, sly, conniving, most pungent of human excresences to have ever existed, in order to be just like she is!!

So who do you reckon 'people'; especially people with low self-respect, will listen to more eh the yank? 

You; or her?

Not that I'm a betting man: but..."They have no idea what it means, and it will never affect them personally."

Too true Pensioner...  I'm currently involved in providing computer support/tuition/etc to elderly gentlemen (and the odd elderly woman) who haven't got the foggiest about basic fundamental things like how to turn on or off their computer whether it be Mac or PC or running Linux (because their techo son told 'em "Linux is best Dad!" before leaving the poor old bugger to his own devices because they've got too busy a life to actually turn up and help the old man for once in their mangy life!) - let alone what "the net" is or isn't!!

Mind you, one of these elderly gents, had a father who fought for Britain and Australia during WWI, and a brother who flew for the Luftwaffe during WWII...

I wonder how the Abbott Government of today would look upon his family?  His WWI vet dad a hero of the Empire? Sure!!  His brother a traitorous lover of the evil axis who is lucky to have been killed in action, rather than trying to return to his country of birth and raising, once hostilities ceased?  

Strange isn't it, that those who ought to comprehend what handing power willingly to Governments can do, because they were age wise, close enough to see what the outcome of that could be, are those who want peace and quiet so much, that they don't mind handing it over without a whimper... in fact; they're more likely to come onto a forum like this and pronounce how "they don't have anything to hide" - and given most of them have lost interest in the opposite sex; don't gamble because they don't have any extra cash, don't drink because it'd disagree with all their medications and don't go out anywhere anymore because their scared crapless of being accosted/assaulted/beaten - I suppose that's not surprising.

Maybe what the results actually say, is that Australia's elderly at this particular point in time; have been set adrift and they're so lonely and vulnerable as a consequence, they don't mind giving up something they'd have never contemplated handing over so easily when they were younger. 

Who'd a thunk that people so close to the grave would be so concerned about their own safety..."Reversion towards the mean..."

Whilst I do recognise your use of the term "mean" is meant in the numerical sense rather than the behavioural sense, I do find it somewhat amusing that humanity is going through a "mean" stage on a global scale at this point, after one of the few 'co-operative' periods (as much as the cold War and all of the regional conflicts of the 50's, 60's and 70's might seem to exemplify otherwise) humanity and our evolution as a species has produced.

It's no surprise, that I hear far more mean and nasty things said about the disabled from those who've grown up in the increasingly "mean" recent decades, than I ever did from individuals who grew up in those decades that are now looked upon as somewhat naive and quaintly 'hick' when it came to "proper" attitudes towards the disabled.

As for evolution... its a word most people see as having a connotation of 'refinement'; of 'improving towards some as yet unseen but superior end'. 

If only 'Nature' (whatever that is!!) saw it the way humans do; that might be true!  Sadly evolution could well be devolution, and given the nature of the Universe is entropy, it's a far safer bet that devolution is the more accurate description..."Remove head from sand, we have terrible evil people ready to have ago living in this country."

And they're just the one's leading this present LNP Government!!

Then there's the local born kids who seethe with hormonally supercharged rage because some girl has spurned them, so they'll go and do the 'copy-cat' thing... or the immigrant who feels they've been mistreated (rightly or wrongly) by some Aussie who doesn't invite them around to their house like they do to "dere Ossie maytz - der busterdz"; or any number of individuals or groups who reckon that they've got a big enough gripe with Australia and Australians to "have a go".

And given they probably have got a point, given just how the good old Aussie character most of us grew up with has gone down the gurgler, to be replaced by the "me" generation's self-absorption and/or total lack of empathy let alone any desire to be as friendly and welcoming as we used to be; and I gotta say I'd be joining them if I had to put up with attitudes like some being expressed on the Drum were actually being expressed on the street.

Come to think of it; I don't mind "having a go" at my fellow Aussies when they express such nugget headed acquiescence as your own to handing their own butts over to people who had better provide much more of a guarantee regarding the sanctity of those butts, than a mere "everywhere else in the West is doing it"!

So; in conclusion John... someone who has their head firmly ensconced up their own rectum may well believe those who don't see things their way, could well have their heads buried in sand; but even if they did, it's better to be chewing on grit than... you guessed it!!"Australians have nothing interesting to hide from security services"

So; John, if Australians have nothing interesting to hide, why the urgency in uncovering what our so-called leaders ought to already know - or is the truth; that they and you are afraid of admitting, more along the lines of "we're actually so flaming paranoid that we'd much rather keep tabs on the people we are supposed to trust and they in turn trust us... so we'll invent this whole scenario where we get in first on the lack of trust front, and then make out like we ought to be trusted when our very words and actions show we don't deserve the trust of the people any more".

This whole debacle reeks of those with false senses of security, sending their own buttocks up Poo Creek based solely on the misguided and incomplete logic of "if you're innocent you've got nothing to hide", simply because they see "terrorists" as bearded Muslims which they reckon they are not - when even some not so bright individuals can figure out that even lame brained "terrorists" can figure out how to lay low in a country like Australia.  

No amount of data retention is gonna do anywhere near as much in negating the terrorist threat as vigilance by Australian citizens who's sense of security isn't a false one that they are prepared to sell to a bunch of trigger happy, ging-ho brain dead turkeys who see themselves as modern day gun-totting Sherrifs cleaning up Dodge flamin' City!!

Even back then; the so-called "law" didn't stand a chance if the citizenry just sat on their butts - whimpering how "they were innocent with nothing to hide" while actually hoping that the bigger bully was on their side!!   

Technology hasn't changed that most basic and underlying truth."It wouldn't at all surprise me if this is deliberately calculated to discourage people using the internet."

Ahhh... I wondered how long it would take before someone admitted to thinking that.

Of course, if you do think that; you then have to explain to yourself (i.e. reconcile) how the push to place as many if not all formerly 'analog' services/transactions online by both business and Government - things such as banking, purchases of goods, Centrelink and Medicare claims/forms etc. online to exemplify just a few, sits in relation to a belief that there's a deliberate plan to discourage people from using the very thing that we are being pushed into using whether we like it or not!!!

The only conclusion/s I can see, are... 
1. The current Government is filled to the gunwales with imbecilic buffoons who dream in the night what their version of reality will be for the next day - or...
2. There's a plan to herd the sheeple onto the internet, from where the barely disguised fascists who see themselves as upholders of everything that's wonderful because they think they're just wonderful, can be watched, manipulated and kept in a constant state of paranoia about their well being; and as a consequence of being so concerned about their pointless existences, they will be more and more prepared to give the barely disguised fascists who see themselves as exemplary of how everyone else ought to be more and more power and influence over their very existences.

I know which conclusion I think reconciles the apparent clash of purposes... but then I'm just reaching that conclusion based on my personal dealings with politicians of all political flavours.The mark of a Democracy's 'strength' is it's capacity to respect it's citizens individuality.

Clearly, when the leaders of a democracy enact legislation that implies the need for conformity as a protection against persecution, the democracy they claim to be protecting is shown to be standing on very shakey ground indeed!!

When Nations take to seeking enemies within their own borders, you know something is seriously wrong.

Sadly, the ALP doesn't have any answers either.  

They've all forgotten what it means to have some moral fortitude... the strength of conviction, the backbone, to stand up to those who think they pose a treat; to defend oneself without needing to resort to subterfuge in order to counter the paranoia the so-called "terrorists" hope to set loose; because it's the paranoia that they create amongst those who aren't so secure, that's the weapon that does the most damage; and clearly they've set that paranoia loose.
"...the Right have abandoned Science and Evidence..."

I suspect that you first have to believe/acknowledge/accept/embrace/endorse something like Science and Evidence (especially evidence of the empirical and impartial kind!!), in order to abandon it.

Clearly you can't abandon something you never had in the first place; regardless of how much lip service you've paid to it in order to convince those you needed to convince that you did actually have it - even if only for a little while."I would like Chris to outline to me the instances where any agency has collated "trivial" information on him and then used it in a way which materially disadvantaged him."

I may not be Chris; so I can't speak for him... but I can speak for myself.

Firstly; most Australians would be unaware of the information that has already been collected on them. There are various pools of information currently on record.  

For instance; NSW teachers have (and have had as far as I can ascertain,since the education system was commenced) two sets of records on teachers. The first dossier is a comprehensive set of data that includes comments made by fellow staff members/senior staff etc regarding the subject of the dossier... right down to off-hand things you might have said in the staff room at lunch, or during your playground duty, and all accompanied by special 'comments' about what that says about you as a person/teacher.

The second dossier they keep, is the dossier that gets wheeled on out if there's ever a need for it - like a teacher gets sacked for 'misconduct' or a sacked teacher files for access to their file in order to gather evidence that might help their cause. This second dossier is a highly 'bowldlerized' annotation of what the much more extensive "main" dossier contains.

I was fortunate enough to see both of my dossiers after a visit to the NSW Dept of Education head office, after a low level clerk made the mistake of dumping the dossiers they had with them at the time on the counter right in front of me. 

Serendipity was much in evidence that day, as my dossier was the one on top of the pile... but maybe, given my visit to head office was at the request of the head clerk - who as it turned out was 'gunning for me' because a junior clerk had acted on the request of a Principal in appointing me to the Principal's school, and given the head clerk couldn't discipline the junior clerk, the easiest target was the teacher who had been appointed - so I was rung and told to see the head clerk.  

Needless to say, I didn't get a lot of time to see everything that was in my two dossiers/files, but I saw enough to realise that the Stasi/KGB wouldn't have needed much pressure to get the info they did on folks behind the 'iron curtain' when it was clear my fellow employees weren't exactly tight lipped!  

So; when the head clerk ushered me into his office and informed me "you'll never work for the Dept ever again!!" and started waving around the abridged copy of my dossier/file as though it held incriminating evidence, I realised just how reality can be manipulated by those who feel not only capable of manipulating it by taking things out of context, but wield enough influence to make sure others believe the manipulated falsified version too.

It took the promotion of the head clerk who'd decided to put the boot into me, and"Adam Smith argued that all nations would benefit if they concentrated on producing the goods and services in which they held a comparative advantage and then traded."

So how come Australia has so successfully managed to avoid utilising anything other than the stuff that the 'Old World' was used to eh?  Why have we assiduously avoided leveraging the advantage to be gained form trading native Australian produce? Perhaps it's partly down to the attitude the 'powers that be had' towards the knowledge of the Aboriginals. 

So sad that a bloke in 1776 could figure out what was needed and instead, we went along with the 'conventional' wisdom of importing produce and practices from a totally different hemisphere and environment; and we still follow like the sheeple we've become conditioned to be...


"Free trade, he argued, would benefit all nations."

That's worked well hasn't it?!!!!  

Maybe "free trade" and the benefits it supposedly brings, might work in a world without enmity, jealousy, greed, paranoia, lust and the whole raft of human foibles that the path of evolution still hasn't managed to eradicate from our species' most fundamental genetic makeup.

Maybe "free trade" would work as the 'Ivory-Tower' theorists of economics see it as doing, if humanity was totally eliminated from the equation.  That might just present a little bit of a stumbling block however - but such stumbling blocks never seem to phase those intellectuals who hold such 'airy-fairy, sugar and spice and all things nice' visions for a World where reality shouts at them that "it ain't gonna happen!!!"

Clearly, Mr Abbott is such an 'Ivory-Tower' idealist (despite the clear lack of any intellectualism), who's tempered by the belief that if everybody just saw things his way, we'd all be much better off; even if that better off means greasing and bending over as he is for whatever it is our new overlords in the U.S.A. see as being for our benefit; even as he hangs onto the belief that his place of birth still represents the most holy of holies.

Perhaps the pharmaceutical makers are well pleased that the dopamine they produce appears to have brought Australia into line with their long held ambitions; given we appear to now be a land of dopes led by a supreme dope.Why oh why, must every action that's rationale for execution is the garnering of some form of acquiescing reaction, got to be punitive?

The words themselves say exactly what sort of mindset those extolling their use have before they're even trotted onto the international stage!

Sure; there's times where you don't allow bullies whatever their stage  - domestic, local, regional, national or international; to just get away with their behaviour again and again and again... but it's no surprise that the constant use of "force" in an attempt to get people to do what's supposedly wanted (namely to be nice) is failing!

I certainly never saw anything other than short term behavioural alteration after the inflicting of punitive measures in the classroom - so why would so-called "world leaders" be so dense as to not recognise it's going to be similarly ineffective (and maybe even counterproductive) in the long term on the world wide stage?

Either the military holds more sway than we realise (let's face it, "big boyz luvz du luv 2 play wid dere big toyz!") or our leaders are actually a lot less intelligent than we give them credit for.

It's time we had a change from the "same old, same old" when it comes to sorting out these 'messes' the World seems to finds itself in; because let's face it, one of these days the use of the same old solutions is gonna get the whole little blue jewel of a planet (or what remains of it!!) into deep, deep human generated poo-kak."Going by the reactions it would be ideal if schools had logic and rhetoric brought back in."

Yeah... That'd be nice if only one could find individuals equipped with the logic required to teach logical thinking processes, let alone the linguistic capabilities to extrapolate the process in a clear and concise verbal manner.

As for your contention that "no-one is forcing religion onto your kids" - you clearly have your own head stuck under a few tons of silicate base, shoreline hugging grit!

It isn't as if teachers are forced to eradicate any religious beliefs they have before entering the career; and regardless of the guidelines teachers are supposed to abide by as set out in the Dept. of Education handbook for each State/Territory (which it appears from my observations as a former teacher, are reasonably similar throughout Australia in the 'non-religious' school system), that expect teachers to be 'agnostic' when it comes to the representation of religious or political beliefs; there isn't as yet any video surveillance of classrooms so such agnosticism can be observed and/or enforced. 

Besides; many values we would consider 'agnostic' have a religious foundation - so it's quite plausible to promulgate the opinion that even within our "State" school systems, teachers still use 'religious' principles, ethics and biases within the classroom environment on a constant daily basis - and not only that, but the kids in those classrooms form an opinion based upon their own personal judgements of the environment the teacher creates, that have religious biases that they bring from home.

So sure, the other classes have values endemically entrenched within them - but missing how those values are based upon the religious beliefs and ethics that were part and parcel of the beliefs of those who originally designed the system and the courses our education system is still bound by, is either somewhat disingenuous or an attempt by the blind to lead the blind.The only reason the Commonwealth Games are lampooned as "pointless" or "second rate", is because once the 'cult of winning' became by some weird process of media osmosis, the National obsession, a meeting of individuals who's common ground was that they were all part of "The British Commonwealth" seemed like some archaic and embarrassing throw back to a time when the Raj must have seemed mystically of benefit to the Indian subcontinent, much like singing "God Save the King/Queen" made one's heart swell with pride to be part of an English speaking majority of the World (apart from the U.S. and it was always clear they were a bit jealous of being left out anyways!!), so that the spirit of competition and just mingling with people from such diverse walks of life and cultures and races who still shared being part of Britain's "Commonwealth" was as much a reward for the athletes as winning medals, the Commonwealth Games have become as embroiled in the denigration of all things to do with "Anglo" culture/existence/male genderdom as everything else that it appears must be lampooned or derided in the 'multi-cultural' scenario we've created for ourselves today.

Then again it's hard not to notice that the "Commonwealth" or to be more precise, the former "British Empire", isn't what it used to be... much like those places that lusted after Empire themselves, are no longer what they used to be either.

So; from a competitor's point of view, does it matter what some numpty Aussie loud mouth writes on a forum, or puts their name to as a "journalist" in order to spark debate - or in the case of an online forum, uninformed and irrational blithering?

I'd hope not!  If they love their sport - regardless of whether it's lucky enough to be considered 'professional' or whether the Government funds them or not; they'd still see it as the sort of competitive event that they'd rather be at than not be at!!  

Would they give their all simply based on preferring to be there than not? I'd hope so...  It'd be a bit disappointing if they just didn't give their all because "it's just the Commonwealth Games" after all...  which'd make the media and all those knobs who mouth the same sorts of sentiments the guilty catalysts for such a lack of heart and desire."There is no justification for the amount of money spent on sport in Australia."

Not even the justification of "pacifier of the otherwise restless masses"?

Surely given the Government and no doubt yourself see no issue whatsoever in spending money on a purely professional set of armed forces; there is surely every justification for paying a lot less money for the benefits to be gained out of many more elite athletes doing what they do on a far more regular and constant basis as one is paying our elite soldiers/sailors/air force personnel to provide.

During the times of 'peace', our athletes whether they be professional or not, provide the sort of distraction that if it wasn't there, could lead to the sorts of on street disturbances that have had Governments everywhere pooing their pants for donkey's years.   Hey!! 

Even the Romans understood that if you keep the masses entertained, you keep them essentially 'under control'.

I bet you'd have no qualms in paying a kid who would otherwise cause your eardrums and mental state some distress the sort of sum of money/sweets/any form of bribe required, to keep the little rug-rat out of your hair...

Why is it therefore, unjustifiable keeping bigger even more rabble rousing semi-adult/actual adult/seething with angst causing hormones younger humans out of harms way in a local societal sense, by paying to keep them occupied on the sporting fields here and overseas?

As for the contention that "in the 70s the rest of the world stopped being amateur and left Australia behind"...  It's worth noting just how much 'professional' or 'semi-professional' sport actually occurred in Australia pre and post WWII.  Maybe the sorts of sums being paid to Yankie sportsmen weren't so much in evidence, but I'd be quite prepared to say that the degree of 'recompense' given to Australia's sporting community was greater than anywhere else on the globe!  

Kick-backs, jobs in the organisation, discounts and all sorts of "remuneration" (much like the non-cash components our pollies receive and then use to make it seem like they're 'hard done by' because they aren't... well paid in lots and lots of CASH) have been par for the course for Australia's cricket, swimming, athletics, boxing and especially footy participants (all codes except maybe soccer). 

My WWI veteran grandfather recounted the extra items, 'remuneration' he received from playing tournament snooker and billiards up until WWII, and the job opportunities he was always offered because of his 'sporting prowess'.  My WWII veteran dad certainly had little time for the "man meat" of the local football codes, who for the sake of the morale of the home front; were given cushy jobs unloading ships in Australia's major ports just so they could continue playing footy on weekends to keep the home front happy and entertained, while theIraq; like so many other countries that have been "helped" by the "West" is the victim of 'good intentions' gone wrong.

Whether those 'good intentions' went wrong as a result of deliberate manipulation or as a result of pure incompetence on the part of those meant to administer the on-going administration of 'good intentions', will probably never be known; but given my observation of similarly 'good intentioned' initiatives by the same sorts of people who are expected to administer these sorts of foreign 'good intentioned' missions - it's quite apparent that it'd be a combination of deliberate 'gravy train riding' combined with total and absolute incompetence by those tasked with actually making something worthwhile happen.

While the human race hangs onto the fallacy that it is "intelligent"; these 'Nation saved by caring people ends up going down the drain pipe and into the cesspit' type of events will continue.

Politicians think they have the answers - but if they did how come they can't even provide the answers for their own Nations?  
Academics think they have the answers because they're just super duper intelligent; but they haven't had an original idea since the first text that they continue to quote lest they get derided for having thoughts that don't have a text based original idea that they've followed, got written!!
Corporate leaders think they have the answers, because it's clear that if you can make a motza from ripping people off, you've got to be real smart!!

Put them all together when it comes to developing "solutions for Countries/States in turmoil that we must set on the right path because we're just so wonderful and our way of life is the ant's pants" and you've just formulated a recipe with way too many stuck up prig cooks and not one ounce of intellectual flexibility amongst the lot of them.  All they have in abundance is the ego driven belief in their own superiority.

The reason the Word recovered after WWII was because the veterans who fought it didn't want another WWII...  They've gone from the scene now.  Instead we have their descendants, who didn't learn a thing from their parents/grandparents; and now we get to see how much of a mess the little snots who should have got a quick slap over the ear hole when they acted all clever and smart can make once they've got their grubby little mits on the reigns of so-called "power"."Que non-sensible reponses"

Attempting to paint any response that doesn't applaud or agree with your own by pre-emptively describing any as "non-sensible" proves the author of the article's point perfectly.

Oh - and BTW, "On education funding? States do the educating - not the Federal Government."

I hope you didn't attend an Australian University, because given Universities are Federally funded, it would be tantamount to verifiable proof of just how poorly educated some graduates of our highest educational institutions can prove themselves to be.

Some things are neither to the left, right or even up the high-diddle-diddle... They're just facts.Isn't the "sensible middle" somewhat like humanity's perception of the earth's position in space?

Once upon a time, everything was seen as spinning around us, because we were the middle - until some numpty discovered that the sun was in the middle of the solar system... until someone else found out even the Sun isn't exactly in the middle given the orbits of the planets aren't purely circular and they even expand and contract.

And who knows - given the way astronomers discuss the Universe as if we are in the middle and everything else is expanding away from us post the "Big Bang"; it seems the bias towards seeing everything as revolving around human existence and in particular our very own particular existence, could possibly be shattered if astronomers of the future discover that the Milky way is in fact way to the left of the Universe!  Then again they might then find out they were looking at things up-side down; which would mean the Milky way is all the way over to the right of the Universe!!!

In the end, it ought not matter whether something is to the left or the right or up or down or stuck in between all, or none of those... because it'll either get up enough noses if it's crud, that it'll eventually be rejected, or be benefit enough to so many that it'll be accepted by pretty well all.

Ahhhh... the irony of making the simple things appear so complicated, when they are in fact so simple that those who comprehend how simple they are sit back in wonder at all the fuss being made by those who can't go through life without making the simple things seem complicated, going through all the effort to make them complicated.

I suppose some people need to justify their existence."What are we going to do about soil erosion, deforestation and pollution."

As far as I'm concerned, the whole issue of all of 'that' is as simple as keeping your own living space clean, productive and workable.  Given our living space is called planet Earth, the responsibility for keeping the living space clean, productive and workable now and into the future is the human races' given none of the other species are apparently cognisant enough to comprehend such concepts according to our smarty pants species.

We lampoon pigs for living in filthy sties; yet when it comes to people living in abject filth or expecting others to cope with the filth that they spew out in vast amounts as a by product of their efforts to make more moolah than anyone else, we're just as disgusting.

I wouldn't put up with a child of mine living under my roof and treating the living space they therefore share, like a cesspit!  If I had to rub their noses in their own excrement to make my point, I'd be rub-a-dub rubbing without any regrets at the rubbing.  

Regrets perhaps that a child of mine didn't 'get the message' about "not living in their own filth or projecting their own filth onto others" before they even allowed their own filth to get out of hand... much like I regret that so many of my fellow humans are filthy disgusting polluters that even the most dung coated of swine would look starkly clean next to.

If the word "animal", is ever to be used negatively; there is surely only one species it could be directed against in that context; and that species is us; we humans... homo bloody filthy stupid and greedy saps sapiens.

Whether the Earth is a miniscule speck of stuff floating in an infinite Universe like an irrelevance, or the most precious jewel created by some non-corporeal entity for our use, the simple fact of the matter is - "don't flaming spit on the gift horse!!!"10 points? 100 points? 

It wouldn't matter how many points they conjure up when it's beyond clear that they've missed "THE POINT" completely to begin with!!

First, one needs to understand that communal dissatisfaction with the government/political/electoral system stems purely from dissatisfaction with what is on offer.

If the fruit in the display is all rotten, there's no point inventing 'points' that might make the dissatisfied punters want to buy already rotten fruit!!  

It's quite clear that there's no desire to make sure the fruit on offer is fresh... All I can see is a desire to give the worm ridden and rotten product a coat of paint in the hope nobody notices it's just paint and that they won't take a bite and get a mouthful of the most heinous corruption.

As for point 10 - A voluntary 'politician's pledge'...  What THE?!!!!  You've got to be kidding me!!!  
Are they saying the oath politicians take upon entering office - on the bible and all; means JACK as it currently stands, and in some mystical realignment of all things beyond imagining, or because the punishment that's implied with the new "pledge" is so horrific that the punishments involved in breaking the current "oath" pale in comparison; the new "pledge" is going to garner instant and miraculous results?!

Teachers have been hearing that sort of bollocks from so-called "educational experts" for donkey's years, when it comes to disciplinary measures for the classroom!!  

Oh Yeah; it all sounds so reasonable; until the reality of how it's just another attempt to plaster over the real problem with 'feel good' camouflage, while the behavioural mess gets ever deeper and more entrenched, and therefore even harder (like a ground in stain) to expunge.

Deary me - the blind leading the blind.You do know TNBB that every elected representative is "sworn in" when they take up their position. The ceremony includes an oath taking with words that describe the commitment to constituents and the country.

If they can't honour the oath they already take, what sort of honour would one expect out of them for an extra "pledge"?!!!

The "I had my fingers crossed behind my back all the way through the pledge so anything I promised doesn't count" version of honour that they use with the current oath?

And what you gonna do if they break the pledge eh?  Give them a smack and tell them to do better next time "or else"...  Maybe tell them they won't be able to go on any overseas "study" trips on the public purse, if they don't stick to their pledge? Yeah that'd do it - until you relent because they've pretended for a while to be all "sweetness and light", just so you will relent (because they know you don't want to look like a fascist A-Hole) and let them get back to unrestricted pledge breaking.  

Oh - I forgot; the "law" can be brought in to chastise the pledge breakers...  (picture of me doubled up in laughter at the prospect of judges biting the hand that feeds them!!!)

If only it was so simple that some 'points' could just be enacted and it'd all be solved...So what's wrong with Australian politicians signing a "workplace agreement" with their employer - i.e. Australian voters?

If it's good enough for everyone else. it's surely good enough for them!!

All that'd be needed was a draft of an employment agreement that's based upon any of the current agreements Aussie employees are expected to sign, to be put up for discussion/refinement/ratification on a publicly available website or group of websites; websites like here at the ABC.

The workplace agreement would like every other workplace agreement I've seen and signed, cover the commitment of the employee to the employer whilst defining what's in store for an employee who fails to meet the agreed clauses of the agreement/contract.

We are constantly being told that "Government needs to behave more like business" - well; why not make Government's elected representatives behave like employees of businesses elsewhere in this country are expected to.

While ever politicians are allowed to behave as though they are 'employers' rather than employees, we will continue to be treated with disdain, and like the docile dozzy twats they know us to be, when they con us with their never ending bare faced lies, or their life long sucking on the publicly funded gravy train's teat!

Get 'em off the teat! They're supposed to work for us, so they can sign the sort of contract they expect us to sign off on. If they object, it'd be a pretty clear indicator of their intention - just as every employer knows an employee who won't sign a workplace agreement has an agenda that could be at odds with the businesses best interests.

It's time to get 'em to SIGN!!!!!So, are you saying that the slogan shown in the picture accompanying the article indicates by implication, that the men who would be driving/riding in the vehicle in the hope that a good looking woman with little to no self-respect might be dense enough to actually act upon what the slogan says; are wonderful decent blokes who you'd love to associate with?

C'mon!!!  Pull the other one; it plays Jingle Bells!!

As a bloke who's only too well aware of the brain dead numpties who are (as Leonardo Da Vinci described them) nothing more than processors of food, that form the majority of my gender - it's patently clear that the kind of bloke the marketing and slogans associated with these vehicles is designed to attract, isn't loaded with grey matter!

Actually, they're the same sort of bloke that attracts the sort of female one sees in programs on commercial television - programs like "What really happens in Bali" or "Bogan Hunters" or any of the host of recent contenders for "best example of depicting Australia's Bottom Feeders".
I take it you must bend over quite a lot then..."They increasingly pursue personal, party and short-term political interests at the expense of the national interest."

Ain't it interesting that a former LNP leader should diss on both political parties!

So what were you doing when you had the chance to change things John? Navel gazing?

As for seeing Clive as a breathe of 'fresh air'... Don't make me laugh!  

The fact that a former leader of our major conservative political party sees a 100% conservative as a breathe of fresh air in the political system (ah yes; of course, toss in some reservations lest it be way too apparent how unsubtle the attempt at manipulation is!) ought to come as zero surprise - yet I see not one comment so far, pointing out that an article that has at it's core the droning rhythm of the "it's the right time for a new political force" drums, is in  fact nothing more than a giant declaration of the delusion doing the rounds at present of current and former conservatives of  the primacy of the conservative way in this great southern land...

What a pile of piffle!! It's like reading a very verbose prose sonnet to the oversized flavour of the conservative month.  What a giant hug-fest of conservative bro-luv!!

And even more disgusting is just how the desire to suck off the gravy train teat infests all of them; even as they mouth their derision of those they deem "leaners"... whilst touting themselves as "lifters"!!  Hypocrites.I knew that Ian Thorpe was more sensitive and less likely to be involved in some sort of blatant display of his supposed masculinity - like punching a fellow swimmer in the nose for instance; than his team mates.

In a word - and given how some obsessive types of people out there are unable to see or hear certain words that are just words without having some kind of boil-over, rather than just seeing a word as just that.. a word; I would have said Ian was quite a bit more 'effeminate' than those of his team mates who were overcompensating in their attempts to prove their "bloke-dom" by behaving like characters from one of those 'Jackass' type films.

Which brings me to my next concern - namely why such a wonderful word as "gay" needs to be purloined, warped, twisted and debased in the name of some insane human ballet where the protagonists can't see that by behaving the way they are, and turning a once noble word that had none of the connotations or negativity associated with it like it does today; they are equally as piddle poor as each other.

Gay is a word that doesn't deserve the treatment it's receiving at the hands of those who might say they are, but their actions prove them to be quite the opposite, as well as by those who not only don't deserve to ever reach such a state, it's patently clear they aren't actually capable by way of who and what they are, of ever doing so.

And last but not least, is the need of the media to keep feeding the media whores. 

The regularity with which certain individuals 'hit' the media limelight around about the time they find themselves in monetary difficulties, is more than just monotonous; it's beyond purely suspicious and entering the realms of mutual massaging!!

And dearie me; the ABC appears to be just as obliged to get caught up in the mutual massaging purely out of the urge that draws gawpers/ghouls to the scene of an accident to witness stuff that they normally would feel little to no urge to see... namely, the we'd better check it out inn case we miss something the others will beat us to otherwise.   Ah, ratings - they make the media the circus it is for "the ordinary person" of today."Straight people never have to worry about 'coming out' to anyone."

Oh really?!!!  

I suppose for people who didn't cop flack on the primary school playground from their fellow boys, because they would much rather associate with the girls, simply because the girls didn't play the same sort of overt 'power games' that so many of the knuckle head boys did, it might seem that way... 

Much like it would seem "straight people" who use words of multiple syllables that are clearly elucidated in sentences of more than three words (sentences BTW that aren't punctuated with "ums" or "errs" or "you knows"; let alone free of four letter word invectives designed to coat any sentence with layers of 'straightness' that even the most unsubtle can understand), don't need to worry about 'coming out' - NOT!!!

From what I have observed over nearly six decades of human existence, is that there is pressure on every individual every moment of every day - whether that pressure is self-inflicted or invented by others in order to reduce their own self-inflicted pressure.

By way of an example of "straight people" having an apparatus of 'coming out' to the rest of society; I'd like to point out to you the institution of marriage.  Every human culture has some form of symbol associated with the 'pairing' of a couple, designed so that other members of that culture can recognise the status of the individual.

The pressure to conform is clearly a human imperative. It isn't always right or even nice - it's just there... and even those who feel they are non-conformists are equally caught up in it's spell through their wishing to be part of a culture/group/tribe that is similar enough that they can feel 'at ease'.

Bottom line - don't think that just because one group appears to be the majority, that it doesn't go through the same rituals/rites associated with "earning" entry into it's ranks, as any other group does...  And in the end, if it wasn't sexuality being used as a differentiator, it'd be race or religion or hair colour or eye colour or height or some other quality that one bunch of human knobs figure they could use to appear better somehow... but then they're just fear laden little dweebs aren't they?"He certainly has lot to tell us about the American political scene."

And given - as the bio line at the bottom of the article clearly states; his placement/embedding within Mr Rubio's Washington office, it would appear the vast majority of what he's got to tell us is painted with Mr Rubio's particular brand of tea!!

Your response might convince those people who would also see the Watchtower as a source of "very interesting" and no doubt informed information, that Mr Robinson is somehow a non-aligned commentator on American politics in the lead up to the U.S. federal election; but those with eyeballs that they control rather than having them controlled for them, are able to see that Mr Robinson's opinions: while interesting, are nothing more than flag waving grandstanding for the dude he's put on a pedestal, probably because he pays very generously to cover the bills.Unlike the incidents of murder and rape that occurred long before the arrival of "people with backgrounds we do not know"...

Talk about paranoid androids!!!!  As if you can know the "background" of anyone well enough to know exactly what they're capable of if the circumstances make it possible! It wouldn't matter where they came from or what credentials they had!

I'm amazed at how fear has got a hold of so many Aussies these days, that the simple fact that there's good and bad people everywhere on the planet - sometimes even good people who can be bad and bad people who can sometimes be good; and if you haven't got the moral gumption or capacity to recognise the difference and stand up to those who'd manipulate us (and our fear/s) in order to do their bidding for them; then we might as well kiss our yellow bellied butts goodbye.

Sheesh... what a bunch of flacid tools we've become as a Nation.
"The answer in both cases seems obvious..."

And therein lies the reason why there's a "political class".

The fact that the answer isn't as obvious as you - or those folks who are aligned with your particular wavelength of thinking; would like to believe, is what causes all the mess in the World in the first place.

If the answer was so obvious, there'd be many a politician who wouldn't be in Parliament given what they did when they were teens.

Such a narrow and biased viewpoint is exactly what Mr Berg; regardless of whether I agree with his overall viewpoint or not, is decrying in his article.

Perhaps you ought to be thanked for demonstrating via your words, the sort of bigotry he's talking about as being pervasive through avenues of Governance - which in a Democracy like our's; is the one place it should not be allowed to exist in any form."Clive Palmer, the ultimate puppeteer!"

Clive may well enjoy reading that you think he's such a consummate manipulator... 

Sadly, his public performances indicate that he's pretty good at pulling something other than strings.Huh?!!!

So what are you trying to say GJA?

I mean "this whole insider/outsider business is not terribly useful"... stated as though there's nothing to be gained from petty argument about whether one has been 'skilled up' for a parliamentary career (at upper or lower house level) via the usual channels, or 'skilled up' via less "conventional" avenues - all followed up by decrying of "real life" as a honer of skills for anyone in governance!!!

"Having a family, running a business" in your opinion can't lead to any sort of skill that'd come in handy for sound governance!!!  

Perhaps that opinion would be based on personal experience only - and in your own case it may be resoundingly appropriate and beyond true!!

Of course, there's people who are able to recognise that politics starts in the family, and the dynamics of relationships within a family and business are not that outrageously different to those found within government or government departments/authorities. 

Actually; even the less subtle of voter or political observer can be swayed in their opinion about the quality of a political candidate based upon said candidates current family status/relationship or former business dealings.

Clearly there's quite a few Australians who don't quite agree with you GJA..."My partners international students get very confused that the ABC isn't necessarily the 'official government ' news, like its eqivalent is 'back home' always are."

And that's a "bad" thing how?

I'm also interested in how you could possibly see a totally acquiescent media - regardless of whether the payer of the bills for that media is "the Government" or not; as a sign of the strength of conviction and belief in 'freedom' of a Nation/country/people...

Perhaps the ABC's biggest error isn't that it doesn't always present items that conform to the current Government's politically tainted line of propaganda - it's more that the ABC doesn't present items that agree with the opinions of certain individuals who see themselves as being representative of all that is right and wonderful and beyond question.

Me? I say thank goodness the ABC ISN'T some kowtowing lackey organisation that's more concerned about avoiding late night visits from government sponsored thought police.  Maybe you and hubby ought to go and live in the countries your hubbies students come from if you think we ought to have a media that's closer to what they've got there, simply because their Government foots the bill and expects "official government" propaganda out of their national broadcasters... 

If you can't be proud of a non-butt licking, non-lackey, non-blanc-mange National broadcaster... it may be time you looked at immigrating to a place that has such a National broadcaster."China tends to put business ahead of all things in their international relations and in this uncertain world this is no bad thing."

I'm not too sure I can believe what I'm reading there Malcolm!!

I mean; you're contending that one of the only remaining (if not THE only remaining!) COMMUNIST states has for quite a while (if not all along!!!) turned it's back on it's communist ideals as well as centuries of international ambition, by being just really 'business' orientated as though the word "business" makes everything 'hunky-dory'... all peachy; rather than much easier to manipulate for one's own ends and benefit.

Oh how the World has changed... and not for the better, when even a simple word can be used to dupe people into false senses of security.

People used to understand that the word "business" could have negative connotations - like when it's used in a phrase like "whatever it takes to get the business done".  Clearly there's lots of Aussies out there who would hear Chinese diplomats saying "whatever it takes to get the business done", and assume that means the Chinese will do anything to make us Aussies happy and better off!!!   What a bunch of suckers they must see us as!!!  And rightly so..."China is now only nominally communist"...

Keep telling yourself that Mal!!!   

I'd imagine that if someone told you they were 'only nominally' Al Qaeda, you'd gasp at their temerity; yet that's just as viable a statement to make as the one about China!

I'd also suggest you ask Tibetan refugees whether China is only 'nominally' Communist... or 'nominally' Fascist for that matter, or ask the Taiwanese/Vietnamese/Burmese whether China has ambitions that go way beyond any 'nominally' Communist manifesto when it comes to asserting it's dominance over nearby regions.

Just because they're playing 'ball' in terms of spending money with us, doesn't a 'total turnaround' make.

I'd bet I could spend some money with you for instance, and still harbour desires for domination over you if I was a Nation that wanted to dominate you and others like you regardless of my so-called political ideology...  

What better way to get your guard down than to make you believe my spending all that money was a guarantee that I was your friend?" In my view, Australia is partly-owned by China."

Hey Okashi!!  After reading some of the comments by some of my fellow Aussies; it appears Australia may be more than just "partly" owned by China!!!

When the intellectual defences are also 'down' as they clearly are for some of my fellow Australian's... there's real problems.

A sense of reality should always colour one's dealings with EVERYONE. 

To be so naive, takes the breathe of those with a more acute and developed sense of self-preservation away!!

When it comes to International relations - and China specifically, it's fine to be in for a penny when you're in for a penny; but to carry on like you're in for a pound, just reeks of overblown fascadism or infantile bonding with the nearest available teat.I'm reminded of the younger work colleagues I've known through the 1990's and early noughties who were first gen Aussies; who's parents came from places where ownership of a house (let alone more than one!!) was (as I was constantly being told) "nigh on near impossible"... so, the ability/opportunity/chance handed to them on a platter here in Australia to "buy one, then borrow against it to buy another, then use those two to buy a first home for one of the kids and negative gear the lot" was just too good to be true as far as so many new arrivals from countries where such opportunities would never arise were concerned.

Meanwhile; I was left to wonder how long it would be before the whole thing went belly-up... just like seagulls do when they guts themselves to death on a feast that's so rich and abundant that they just can't recognise the damage they're doing to themselves by gutsing themselves to death.  "How"; I asked myself, "could a single earner in garbage collection for a local council", for instance... "afford to buy three or more properties, and even with negative gearing, keep up the repayments? Surely at some point the back has got to break, and just like a house of cards, once the first card goes the rest will inevitably tumble down."

Here we are in 2014...  If them cards are a gonna tumble, they're not showing any signs of tumbling just yet - maybe because a whole pile of Asian foreigners have jumped on in to save the bacon of those who've overextended themselves... but, I'd bet London to a brick that there's not enough Chinese investors out there to save every overextended local purchaser's butts from bringing the house of cards down eventually.

Just like the results of using a certain brand of shampoo; "it won't happen overnight; but, it weel happin!!"Sorry Claire; but I have to most stridently disagree with your reiterating of the now familiar refrain that "the sensible middle ground of politics is being lost"...

For a start, not one of the political parties even knows what the "sensible middle ground of politics" is - as is evidenced by the quite simple fact that not one of them actually caters IN THE MAJORITY of it's policies or actions once elected to any of our parliamentary houses at Federal, State or even local levels.

They all like to think they know what the "sensible middle ground" is; but they actually haven't got the foggiest, or if they have; the realisation that the majority of that "middle ground" stands in the way of their own grand plans to leave some sort of "legacy" that history will laud as much better than just "sensible" or "middle ground", wipes out any likelihood that "the sensible middle ground" will win the day when it comes to what becomes defining political policy.

Besides; "sensible middle ground" marries totally incompatible philosophies and actions together.  Stuff like: Australia's and Australian's right to restrict who and what comes into our land; with the noble concept of egalitarian access to all this country has to offer.   

You see a political party out there that's able to reconcile such equally viable concepts within a cohesive and 'sensible' set of policies and their enactment in such a way that the majority of Australians will applaud them?

There's times that the "self" is given way too much attention in the media of today. 

If there's anything that obfuscates the demise of "sensible middle ground" political policy formulation and enactment in this country, it's the same thing that's obfuscated/gradually eliminated it elsewhere on the planet also - namely the cult of "me".

The Yanks have a lot to answer for, but the biggest thing they've got to answer for is the message that Hollywood promoted regarding "you're important and you've got something to say that needs to be heard!!", which was fine when it was meant to make dweebs feel they could tackle bullies; but counterproductive when bullies realised it was the perfect call to arms for them to dominate those who were not morally strong enough to give them a short sharp slap over the earhole that'd allow the 'weaker' folk amongst us to have a say.

All that's happened is the cause of "freedom" has supplied the means for those who'd prefer to suppress freedom, the perfect environment to do just that.

Perhaps the pendulum has swung too far for "sensible middle ground", and the extremes are the natural reaction to what has been given them by what was once "the sensible middle ground"..."This country cant be about individuals"...

Oh really?!!! 

I bet that tune would change faster than Tony Abbott's opinion about Indonesian border security would upon meeting the new Indonesian P.M. if your own circumstances changed in such a way that you required assistance as a result of disability...  Accidents - as the wise man says, "can happen".

It's amazing how circumstances become quite different when they affect the person themselves.  

All of a sudden, it's not just about some dehumanized, generalized faceless mosh of flesh that one can typecast... It instantly becomes an issue of exception for an individual case - an "exceptional" case unlike those 'non-exceptional' cases one used to deride as the sob stories of the whingers.

What's good for the goose is good for the gander - but it's easy to see that the gander that wrote what it did about a country not being about individuals thinks all the eggs it lays are golden, so it's clearly not like the others who it sees as not laying golden eggs like it does.

NEWSFLASH denise!!!   Them eggs you're a layin' are lead balloons..."all because your giving the power to someone too nice to actually say no"

So you've never considered the likelihood that the niceness you refer to might well be driven by those individuals who are being nice having worked for Centrelink when it was known as the Department of Social Security -  a time when Departmental employees were allowed to find jobs in places where jobs actually existed; unlike now, a time when Centrelink employees are being replaced by online services. 

If you can provide a satisfactory reason why any sane, self respecting and reasonably intelligent living breathing human being would give a rat's derriere about being a 'loyal' employee to a wholly automated system that's patently designed to eliminate them from their job as easily as automated/robotic systems are eliminating costly human employees from employment elsewhere - I'll give you a LNP sized brownie point, that'll also last about as long as an LNP brownie point will.

So yeah... imagine all those 'blanc mange' push-overs who are witnessing the demise of humanity in the workforce being so gullible as to go along with "work for the dole" rorters, by sticking a spanner in the whole works like the sort of saboteurs who've finally recognised the true enemy they need to bring down - even if some folks; like yourself, can't see that their actions in bringing it down aren't exactly the same as sticking gelignite underneath it.No misunderstanding. 

I've dealt with people who are 'managers' of organisations that are "Centrelink approved agencies or charities" providing work for the dole opportunities to Australians who - like myself, used to be employed...

Some of them used to work for Dept. of Social Security that then morphed into Centrelink. They don't express any desire to support a system they clearly see as flawed beyond redemption, as equally as they don't express any desire to put the boot into people simply because some trumped up self-opinionated pollie on an outrageous (considering the amount of butt massaging hours they do!) salary/remuneration, pontificates about their fellow Australians as though they need to be policed by other Australians into doing as they're told simply because they as the "masters" say so!

Boy... have some people got a lot of learning to do when it comes to how to treat their fellow human beings; let alone their fellow compatriots and citizens!!  "Too nice to say No"?  

Nah, they'll say "no" alright - just not to the people they've been told to say no to, simply because the person who reckons they're top of the heap tells them to say "no".

That's the greatest of Aussie traditions!!!  It's no surprise a pommie born numptie like Tones wouldn't coomprende!  

What's disappointing is seeing just how many Aussies born and bred are prepared to suck up to the butts of those who think themselves above everything and masters of all - rather than following the great Aussie tradition of raising the middle finger at any authority that expects them to do what it's too flamin' gutless to do for itself.You want an alternative that'll create work?

Let's start with reducing the trend to computerisation/robotics in ALL (except executive - wonder why that is!!) workplaces.

Stations could re-employ staff to sell tickets again for instance. Get rid of those automated ticketing systems. Tell all the lobbyists who want to flog their overly expensive and inefficient automated systems that all the donations they've made are gratefully accepted, but they can take their overly expensive automated systems and "sit on them!"

Get conductors back on buses/trams... Stop selling off Government assets that provide work - such as Australia Post!  Pull the senior public servants who run such Government owned utilities into line and reduce their salaries: which is tempting political suicide - but hey, we want something done don't we?!! And to alleviate public servant concerns about reduced remuneration, enact parallel reductions in remunerations to politicians.

Then there'd be the enacting of policies to reduce the 'sense of entitlement' of those people who feel they've made "the tough decisions" like sacking people or replacing them with machines while inflating their own salaries/remuneration. The savings made would be steered back to the employment of people in the jobs that have been taken from them.

Also, legislation ought to be passed regarding anyone who declares "the jobs of tomorrow haven't even been thought of yet" as though such a statement makes the sacking of thousands of people seem reasonable, should immediately be given the sack, so they can personally invent some of those jobs that hasn't been invented yet, as the ultimate act of societal leadership.


There's just a few... There's heaps more but not enough space or time; though I suspect Ravensclaw wouldn't like any of the one's I've suggested so far."There is no need for lobbying."

Tell that to McDonald Douglas or any of the other U.S./European military hardware manufacturers and their lobbyists...

"And why do you say automated systems are inefficient?"

Because they fail to utilise human resources. In fact they are designed and manufactured for the sole purpose of eliminating human assets.

"I used to earn $35K operating a panel saw, now I earn 60K programming a CNC machine."

And that's supposed to make the CNC seem much more "worthwhile"?!!!  I see how it's good for you getting 60K as long as the CNC needs you to program it. (Not so good for you and your $60K once they make the self-programming CNC mill BTW!!!) And sure; there's no need for all those pesky turners 'the boss' would have used to pay if producing multiple replicas of a part... Much more profit per item!

At least you're OK aren't you Jack - er Jimmy...  And clearly there's no reason at all why everyone else can't program a CNC machine and earn 60K just like you!!  Yeah right.

"How does "fail[ing] to utilise human resources" make something inefficient necessarily?"

It makes it "inefficient" in terms of it's rationale for existence - i.e. the rationale behind automated systems is that they enhance productivity and the opportunity for human operators to enjoy greater amounts of time in more productive activities of their own choice (supposedly!).  

"Self-programming is an oxymoron"

So I take it you aren't a 'self-programming' organism then? Perhaps you ought to let all those scientists working on AI and autonomous self-replicating self-ware artificial intelligences not to waste their time because "self-programming" is an oxymoron.

As for adapting... If creating sculptures with a 3D printer is adapting to new ways of tackling production, then I guess I must be adapting.  Mind you; while I appreciate being able to produce items where I have complete control over the whole process from concept through to finished item, I'm also well aware of how I'm now less likely to make use of those specialists I used to have to call upon for my sculpted pieces.  

I guess like you, I'm now much more able to compete with those cheap foreign imports... but I'm also aware of how the skills and crafts associated with the production of things will go extinct as it's used less and less will make future generations just that little bit poorer - not to mention totally incapable of using old time skills/techniques if the production of the power these machines use ever ends up 'kaput'!

It's clear you're proud of what you've achieved in life, and good for you for doing so. While I'm proud of what I've managed to achieve in life also; I'm only too well aware that not every human being is going to be presented with exactly the same opportunities as either you or me. 

I guess it's just a difference of perspective Jimmy. Where some see certainty I see only the certainty of uncertainty. Some see action and inevitable results for each action, while I see multiple unknowable in every situation reactions as well as the actions. That's just the way this democracy thing works - some see it their way; others can see it differently, and even if they can see it through anothers eyes, doesn't mean they have to accept it, nor expect anyone else to see it as they see it just because they think they might be seeing things a bit more clearly.

For those reasons, I see the certainty of the Government's "earning or learning" prescription as overly simplistic and fraught with consequences that such a simplistic slogan cannot possibly entertain as possible outcomes.Nobody commenting here heard of Michelangelo Merisi - AKA Caravaggio?

Or know about the charges brought against Leonardo Da Vinci?

Boy, oh boy, oh boy... It's like human nature comes as some sort of lightning bolt revelation to some people!!  Talk about the naive demonstrating how truly naive they are!

Without inferring any defence of Mr Harris or his present or past actions; it's quite clear that Rolf has been convicted of offences that occurred many decades ago in a British court.  Who's to say that future evidence might not well come to light beyond Britain's shores to demonstrate that 'the truth' as far as the jurors were convinced it was (not "is" given the decades since the alleged assaults took place) was different enough to put quite an alternative slant on things; such, that if the trial was re-held, the verdict might well be quite different. 

Of course, as an artist myself, the lesson to be learned out of all of this, is don't be a "touchy feely" kind of person simply because being so usually (to most non-obsessed or phobia laden individuals at least) indicates an openness/honesty of character; because even if you don't go further and squeeze some buttocks or accidentally brush a breast; the likelihood you'll cop some charge against you once you've attained any success in your career or have aged enough that you're vulnerable to accusations of an inability to remember events etc as well as your supposed victims, makes the "touchy feely" approach to generating patronage a little too risky in this litigious day and age.

On the other hand, surrounding oneself with a "no go cone" makes those folks who love to be buttered up by an artist before they'll "patronize" them, feel that you're too aloof - which merely alienates them... And besides; there's nothing worse for your budding career as an artist than falling foul of the "society matron scorned"!!!

Ahh dear. What's a poor artist to do?  Run the risk of accusations of impropriety if they're "touchy feely" or be consigned to the "they're too aloof and haughty to be patronized in my humble opinion" bin if they avoid being "touchy feely" altogether?  Perhaps, the answer for the artist ultimately lies in what carpenters have always done to join two bits of timber without nailing or gluing..."The sanctimony on display here is horrendous."

Not just here!!!

Then again, there has always been sanctimony...  If there wasn't there wouldn't be such a time honoured word to describe it!!  And along with the sanctimonious there's also always been the malicious, the sly, the devious, the depraved, and every other manner of human there are words to describe.

The fact that modern technology makes it easier for the malicious, the sly and their ilk, to spread their maliciousness to a far wider audience than they've ever been able to reach should not come as any surprise...  Nor should the fact that the targets of the malicious/the sly/the devious/the depraved are still just as gullible/simple minded/naive/craving of attention from their so-called 'peers'/'friends' as they've always been.

While i agree that such material was far less in evidence in the media of the past, I believe (having been employed inside a major media supplier myself) the fact that the media is now so incapable of self-regulation/self-censorship is something the malicious/sly/devious/depraved have taken advantage of in taking the jollies they get from obtaining and spreading this sort of material about, to a whole new level.

In the politics of life, the technology of the modern world has provided a whole new set of tools for those wishing to 'damage' those they desire to 'bring down' far more opportunity than has ever been available to them."Looking to footy stars for moral lessons"...

Really?  You can't see the irony in dismissing the many layered moral issues surrounding Tod Carney's situation, whilst raising morality issues...

No wonder 'ordinary' citizens (and even myself sometimes) talk of "academics" as living in "ivory towers".

And as for these couple of sentences; "We shouldn't care whether footballers - or, for that matter, politicians or actors or butchers/bakers/candlestick makers - are nice people or are good people in whichever curious way we're now defining it. Provided that laws/rules/bones aren't broken, we should be judging work product - judging what's done on the field - and that alone." I'd suggest you need a serious reality check!!  Ever met a boss who just looks at the "work product" alone?!!!  I doubt you look only at the "work product" alone... 

I'd bet London to a brick, that your judgement would be tainted by your perception of whether the maker of that "work product" was a "nice" person or not!!!!

What's truly out of kilter, is the inability of the modern world to cope with calling a talented football player like Tod Carney a brain dead boofhead, and just accepting that as a brain dead boofhead, he's susceptible to conniving and jealous colleagues goading his simple minded self into performing actions they can use in much the same way that Kings used to goad their jesters into acts they could point to as proof of how the jesters were idiots.

As for the idiots who see a successful (read highly remunerated) person of any field as superior in ALL things (especially intellect!!!)... they deserve pity: maybe contempt on occasion, but above all empathy, given there won't be a man or woman alive who hasn't at some point been taken in by another human being at some point in their life.
I take it Ian hasn't been watching 'Game of Thrones'...

If he had,  he'd be a little less keen to scrap ASIC and start again from scratch.  He'd be a little more circumspect about the benefits to be had from a rebuild of a body of oversight when those who have corrupted the present body of oversight would oversee the building of a new body of oversight.

Not that I'm disagreeing with his underlying expression of frustration at a body such as ASIC!  It's just that frustration can lead one to leap to conclusions that if taken up by opportunists who can see benefit for themselves in acting upon such conclusions - whilst carefully stage managing the whole process; any possible 'benefit' to be gained in giving a body like ASIC back some "teeth", rather than continuing to put up with it's continued gummy massaging of those it's supposed to protect the Commonwealth and it's people from.

If I may be so bold as to continue the dental analogy, it's often better to fill the existing dentures rather than reef the lot out and replace them with a false set - especially if the false set end up being a set from some shonky dentist rather than a set from a dentist you trust because they've proven they're trustworthy.

Sadly; I'm certain that; as with most dentists I've ever known/met/used the services of, there's so few decent one's amongst them these days, the chances of a decent ASIC appearing - irrespective of whether it's a restructure or a total rebuild; is about the same as a snowflake's surviving in Hades..."Child slavery is useful"

Already debated in board rooms of large Multinational corporations... Debate won by the affirmative.

"Women are actually property"

Debate held and won in many Nations - not only middle Eastern one's but also quite a few 'Western' ones or 'Western-pretender' ones as well as Asian and 'New World' ones.

"Disabled should just be euthanased"

This debate may appear to have been had and the advocates for well and truly trounced - but; a quick check of individual personal attitudes will show the astute observer that there's still quite a lot of people out there who'd be joining the ranks of Dr Mengele based solely on their inherent repulsion at what they see as "a lack of perfection".  It's just a shame they don't have a decent mirror to look at themselves in...   Thank goodness the more sane voices in society prevent those who aren't so sane from having a say (much like the current topic of this article really!).

"Torture should be taught at school"

You clearly have never been a teacher!!!  Torture may not be a 'subject' but there's many a student who finds themselves the 'subject' of the topic!!  And not just 'torture' of the physical kind either!  Schools give the psychological sadist juveniles of society their first opportunities to exercise their talents outside the confines of the family.  If it wasn't for astute teachers (and there's not heaps of them BTW!) there'd be many more "scarred for life" graduates of our education system than are pouring out of them already!!

Bottom line - there's heaps of topics we could discuss it's true; but usually, we have thought about some of them in our deepest darkest moments and have realised they are ANATHEMA and any further thought or discussion won't make them worth talking about, beyond knowing they are indefensible stances for anybody wishing to be a decent human being."... leaving more money to spend on yachts."

And 'celebrity' wife/wives/toy boy/z and those magic mirrors that show no defect in the person who looks into them, and always answers "you are the fairest of them all" when asked "who is the fairest employer of them all?".  It's also the kind of magic mirror that also answers "why you of course" when it's owner asks "who has done it really tough in life and knows what it means to struggle?"

It's the kind of magic mirror that when looked into by it's owner, responds with "why not get into that four wheel drive knowing you're sloshed; and besides; if you end up having a prang you can always blame it on someone or something else, or use your 'celebrity' status or previous husband/s;wife/wives as proof of why you ought to treated differently from everybody else... because you clearly deserve to be treated differently from everybody else because you're just so flamin' wonder-bloddy-full!!""A small number of rich people cannot protect themselves from tens of millions of poor people if the poor decide to take things into their own hands."

Ah... but Jimmy, that's why the small number of rich people require even more wealth!!  To prevent the poor ever being able to get their hands on them or their 'things'. 

And let's face it; slavery would never have been abolished if it had just been left up to the slaves to do something about it.

In the end it was 'renegade' "masters" who brought the edifice of slavery down.  A bit like it won't be the ALP who'll bring the current LNP down, but those LNP members who get jacked with Tony and Joe and Julie behaving like they're all "sweetness and light" whilst jabbing the blade in between the shoulder blades.  See; while the LNP mouths it's platitudes to the filthy rich; it's main players are envious of the filthy rich and the filthy rich have such disdain for those they've paid off in the LNP (and ALP for that matter), that in the end it takes virtually nothing for both sides to lose their brownie points and turn to open white-anting of each other.

I'm sure that if you take a closer look at all those "revolutions" you mention, you'll find that the catalyst for all of them was richies or former richies or 'disenfranchised richies' or richie wannabees, leading the rabble who'll follow whatever rabble rouser grabs enough of their attention.While Mr Jericho writes somewhat dispassionately on the subject of economic equality in Australia and uses comparison with 'figures' from the U.S. to drive his analysis; I can but only ruminate upon the failure of every last item I have read or heard on this most important of issues to address the REAL issue; namely the lack of any National pride by our leading individuals and any subsequent desire for every last citizen of the country they share to be as well off as they are.

The truth of the matter is; all the talk or figures/diagrams showing economic disparity can do nothing to make up for the intellectual/emotional disparity that exists in those who are capable of looking at impoverished fellow citizens without seeing the reflection upon themselves as fellow citizens!!!

After WWII it would be fair to say that most returned servicemen would have liked to see every fellow Aussie live a 'well-off' life.  They certainly wouldn't have told their mates "Aussies are over bloody paid and lazy"... certainly after relying on the bloke they'd  just slandered to save their skin in a trench outside Tobruk or face down in some muddy fox-hole off the Kokoda track!!  

They knew what it meant to rely on their mates for survival!

The wealthy of today haven't got a clue about that - and as a consequence something that was truly a part of the "Aussie ANZAC spirit" has died along with all of those veterans... namely; a sense of responsibility/generosity - that willingness to look after your 'mates' without expecting them to fawn or grovel or do something for you in return.

There's no graph of diagram or test or gauge that can possibly measure the heart and soul of a Nation or it's people... but; just as a body knows when the heart and soul has wilted and is beating limply, the body of the Nation knows something isn't right with Australia as it is today.  It's just that the body of Australia is clutching at different medicines in the hope they might bring back some vitality.

Sadly the current prescription is more likely to do even further damage.Rejoicing doesn't actually mean being happy about re-employing the same loser over and over again...

Qantas is becoming a really bad Irish joke - and it ain't funny!!I love people of all races as long as they're decent people who know how to get along with other people...  

I must be a true racist!!!!

Or is a true 'racist', someone who loves having a punt on anything first past the post, whether it runs on four legs or two?

All this talk is enough to drive a sane person into hoping for someone - anyone, to come up with some unifying sort of concept like belonging to a team; which is probably the whole point of "team Australia" - namely, recognise just how this whole over-the-top reaction to the supposed  'racist' nature of ALL Australians is getting up the noses of even those Aussies who wouldn't normally even contemplate something as ludicrously childish as "team Australia", to the point where they not only contemplate it; they may even end up endorsing it.

How sad that the inability of some people to take a look in the mirror at themselves before they start writing about the "racist" nature of ALL their fellow citizens based solely on the actions of a few aberrant numpties, could well lead to the alienation of the very people they're hoping to bring further into their fold via the constant attempts to shame.

The bigger shame is the more the boy cried "Wolf!!!", the more those who would have come to his aid started to ignore the constant cries of "wolf!!!"  

And once the boy had cried "Wolf!!!" enough, that nobody came to his aid, he no doubt cursed those who now ignored him, rather than accepting his own part in creating his own situation..."Why can't the less well off, accept the fact that...well, they are less well off?"

They do accept that fact. 

What they find galling Waterloo, is the efforts of those who see themselves as "well off" to paint them as ungrateful, and even more insultingly, deliberate malingerers...

And if we "not so well off" Aussies allow those Aussies who think themselves "well off" to look down upon us as though we are in some way deficient, or actively working to destroy the way of life that our fellow "well off" Aussies reckon they enjoy - then it's time for those Aussies who maybe aren't "well off" to get off their bums and put the bullies of the playground back in their place, so some peace and quiet can return to the scene!!!!

So, Waterloo; given the less well off can clearly accept that they're less well off, can you and your ilk accept being nothing more than a bunch of pompous arrogant gits who see themselves as intelligent every time they behave like bullies?"Labor was just unable to counteract that, simply because they just lacked the tools. The lesson has been learned, and now Labor is in the position to counteract Murdoch and his Media Gang to a good extent..."

Boy are you hopeful Alpo!!!

Clearly both sides of politics have become infested with the same lack of vision, the same abysmal deficit of moral fortitude and the same mentally simplistic mores as the rest of today's Aussie society...

Our politicians are after all just members of the Australian community!!  

How can we expect any better of our 'leaders', when our educational institutions don't foster "critical thinking" or even try to teach the questioning of so-called "accepted wisdom"?  

When scholarships are handed out to the best quoters of "accepted wisdom", you know you're in trouble when it comes to finding individuals who will challenge the norms, who will tackle issues innovatively, creatively.  

When the National response is to "compete" by doing what everybody else is doing - then you know you're up poo creek without a paddle!!  And when the responses you get to trying something different are as stultifyingly inane as "but if it was a viable alternative somebody would have already made money by doing it"; you know that not only is the Nation's intellectual capacity well and truly flushed, but so to is it's political will to break the mould.

Now; if Labor had the gumption to accept that it stands side by side with the Union movement; and instead of trying to distance itself from something the LNP and it's cronies have spent ages trying to paint as "evil incarnate" - embrace that it stands for individuals who don't want to accept the will of "the bosses" or of "tyrants" simply because they've got lots of money, and are prepared to join together in co-operative action against those who would rather see them suffer.

It's been a long road to both sides of the Aussie political spectrum becoming apologists for the biggest corporate organisations and agents of enabling the wishes of the largest corporate leaders - but now that we're here; the road back to a political world that did ultimately have the best interests of Australians and Australia at heart, is going to be a lot harder and longer - I fear; than your wishful optimism hopes it will be."He is basically a DLP type..."

You clearly have no idea about the DLP if you can make that statement!!

B.A. Santamaria was no 'middle-of-the-road' espouser!!!

He also knew there would be plenty of Aussies without the brain power to know that the name Democratic Labor Party was in the same league as National Socialist Party, when it came to misrepresenting the goals of the party members or leadership...

The old "wolf in sheep's clothing" trick still works a treat apparently!!!"Cannabis destroys brain cells..."

Hmmm... My observations over many decades, are that you first have to have some to destroy.

And while it may hurt to hear the truth; there's way too many people who should have never been let anywhere near ANY drugs!!!  

Sadly; such individuals' relatives forgive them all sorts of behaviours that are symptomatic of the fact that they are NOT capable of handling ANY form of drug, and then - when the inevitable happens... it's "the drug" that's the "evil" thing, rather than an acceptance that it was those who should have known better being more astute and capable of keeping the individual protected against things they ought to have known would lead to the inevitable result if they weren't vigilant enough.

Avoiding the evidence that the vast, vast, vast majority of people who are "on mental health services/pensions" who could be listed as being there as a result of "cannabis use", would have been there sooner or later - because they have what is known as "pre-disposition" towards certain behaviours; is easy to overlook in the rush to find something to blame that can't talk back in defense of itself." "moral failures" are much more than just the acts of individuals..."

Now there's the first and most culpable 'error' that I read in the opinion piece!!!!

Not only does such a viewpoint carry within it the seeds of "the get out of Jail free card" for the religion that each individual who is an essential yet still individual member of an organisation such as "the Church" supposedly adheres to; it also deflects the individual shame that each of those individual members of the organisation MUST hold - even if they weren't/aren't personally responsible for such blatant failures of word or deed.

The same could be said of businesses or political organisations/institutions/edifices... whatever word fits the desire to dehumanise an 'entity' in the hope that the 'entity' itself can survive the behaviour/s of individuals who are supposed adherents/proponents of what the 'entity' "stands for".

Such a viewpoint is clearly founded in the same climate of "fear" as the inane and counterproductive in the long term as the "close ranks" philosophy of those individuals who act en-mass to protect what they call "something worth protecting", when anyone with half a bit of nouse knows the only thing being protected is their own rather unworthy buttocks!!     And guess what?!!!  

The fear they have is based solely upon what they've created in their own unstable and unworthy minds... no doubt concocted around what they'd do to punish anyone like themselves!!  

And yet; the actual punishment they'd cop if they had the strength of conviction to own up to their "mistake", is far more than usually far less damaging to their own existence than the punishment they'd mete out to anyone they'd sit in judgement upon!!

So much human anguish and destruction of ideals and hopes, has come from the most basic and simple to overcome of all human foibles - our fears.

When fear overcomes strength of character; this is what we get... 

Let's at least have the strength of character to stop ourselves from hiding our responsibility as individuals behind dehumanising "group-speak" terminology like "church" or "society", when we all know that such things are made out of individual human blocks; and it's not necessary for the other bricks to actually shove the failed or failing brick out (which the failed brick fears will happen), but it is plenty worth it for the failed brick to know that it'd better pull it's socks up or it will get the turf, no questions asked if it can't get it's act together!!!"...utilities that have gone for good."

Well; they've technically gone for good... that is until the foreign overlords who buy them up throw more and more cash at them - then once the foreign overlords go broke, the local Government/corporations can step back in and buy them back off the foreign knuckle heads for a song!!

Either that, or the government here can just declare a "National Emergency" at which time all those bits of paper we currently put so much wasted faith in, that declare 'ownership', become mere chaff to the wind!!!!

Of course the time for any Aussie Government to do that is when the countries of the foreign owners are so in debt themselves that they couldn't afford to try and militarily or legally push their point - even if they felt entitled to...

The whole point of "foreign ownership/investment", is for some cashed up turkey with about as much local knowledge as a visitor from the Andromeda Galaxy, to toss heaps of foreign dosh at a cash hole here in Aus, while local investors re-channel the cash they would have lost on the local cash hole company/ies into more profitable enterprises... or it is the point of the whole exercise until the local grand-panjandrums of economic flim-flam out-clever themselves and the rest of the country has to foot the bill ofr their inability to accept that they've made a "mistake"...

And thus, our Post Offices get handed over like lambs to the slaughter by a farmer who clearly can't see the gold of the fleece, while preferring to imagine the tender lamb cutlets he'll be able to feast on for one night before the famine sets in..."It is now called by a rather cute name "Human Resource Department"."

You didn't expect them to call it "The slave redistribution department" did you?!!

Sadly the Post Office was named in the days when the word "bad" actually meant 'not so good'; unlike today where "bad", is "fully sick"!!

Hence the meaning of "post" these days in the minds of the majority, which is 'a solid lump of wood or metal sticking out of the ground'... has tainted the perception of the "Post" office as anything worthwhile and instead paints a picture for such unsubtle minds, of something pretty useless as far as they can see that's sticking out of the ground - which they're convinced; like the numpties that they are and always will be, they have to pay for!!!

The only thing the current "Post Office" therefore has in common with the majority of today's Aussie citizens, is the denseness of the material the post is made out of..."It's the same thing, you want to get paid for providing something that someone wants."

Yeah; but the folks who carry on about "profit" and how "they work hard and deserve what they earn" etc, etc, etc... while anyone who isn't them is clearly "a lazy dole bludging bum" or "a leaner rather than a lifter" etc, etc, etc are the ones who expect hard working people like myself, to work for them for an hour or two without getting paid...

So why is that?  

I'd call it hypocrisy, if it wasn't for the fact that I know that their real motivation is the boost that treating somebody who they know they ought to be paying a proper rate too like a 'lesser than them' human being, allows them to feel they must be.

Sadly, I see them conversely.  Still; it's apparent that there are plenty enough Aussies alive today who aspire to be the "jealous of the super wealthy" individuals, that Gina reckons we need more of so they can pretend to financially and socially climb over each other in the race to what they think is the top, while those with a shred of human dignity and appreciation for the noble human trait of co-operative effort, look on at the entertainment being provided by those racing each other to the bottom of the pit of human degradation...

So yeah - by all means make a profit; but when that profit is made at the expense of your fellow Australians, rather than for the benefit of your fellow Australians; expect some derision and lampooning, because it's 101% warranted!!!"Its not always about me me me or dollars dollars dollars."



Blasphemer!!!

Thinking like that won't earn you a 'first team' jersey on "Team Australia"!!!

Clearly there's only two things that are worthy in the Australia of today... 1: admiring oneself - preferably one's own genitalia and 2: having enough cash to enlarge (either in one's own mind or actually via surgical procedures) the aforementioned genitalia.

Anyone who is secure in who they are, must be eradicated or made to feel small at all costs because they clearly have the sort of genitalia that provides the sort of satisfaction those without hunger for, and are therefore a major threat to the mental well being of the loonies who hunger after the affirmation they believe having the heaps of cash that being so into themselves will inevitably bring.

Australia; the land that's fast being run by the raving loons..." I am unskilled, put pieces of paper in letterboxes, no tickets, no qualifications yet regularly earn 70k a year."

So you'll be using the postal service you work for to put the extra dosh you feel is excess to what you ought to earn as an unskilled, unticketed, non-qualified postie, into an envelope addressed to some worthy charity who would be able to use the excess dosh you earn to alleviate the hardships being felt by your fellow Aussies who've felt the steel capped boot of retrenchment up their derrieres?!!

Why is it I get the feeling that won't happen...So when are the 'try-outs' for Team Australia happening?

I reckon I'm worth a jersey!!

I hope there's going to be some quality tests at the try-outs of just how prepared the aspirants are to prove they're part of the team!!

I'll be real disappointed if "Team Australia" ends up just another "the popular kid/s are made Captains, then they get to choose their teams based upon who they like, or who's buttered the popular kids buttocks up the most" exercise - because if that's the case, it'll be no different to getting to the top of a political party!!!"...the one that doesn't need to earn a profit..."

Clearly, it wouldn't matter whether a media Baron was in charge or not; because when 'the news' - even "news" that ought to be paid attention to by those who clearly would welcome what "the news" announces; are either too dense, too uneducated or just too caught up in their hatred of "the other side", that they totally ignore what's been reported so many times that it's become boring!!

In this case, the news that (I feel loathe to actually use the online moniker because there's no actual 'evil' there let alone anything resembling a "pundit" in any way shape or form after this latest piece of "monkey not see monkey not hear monkey not speak"!!) EvilPundit has totally avoided is the setting up of the Federal Government's Audit of the National Broadcaster (I do hope Evil knows the National Broadcaster is the ABC!!! Kinda hard to tell given how much else appears to have not sunk in.)  that I suspect he knows wasn't just setup to oversee how much public funding could be spent in the shortest possible amount of time.

What was that line from the Midnight Oil song?  "Short memory must have a short memory..." - or a beyond selective one, that's been formed from a lifetime of needing to be right, because there's not enough courage there to accept being wrong and just getting on with things.Oh! And BTW... Anyone else received the latest offer from Fairfax for access to their online news services such as SMH.com for $7.95 per month?!

I mean, what sort of tool offers all that news content for only $7.95 -  which not only cuts the heart out of their hard copy sales, but is enough of an insult to folks like myself who (regardless of being a former employee who got access as part of their work for free) were on-line news consumers from so long ago that the SMH.com.au was a free news feed service; that using a totally free alternative on-line service like the ABC's one, becomes much more than merely viable! 

No wonder the turkeys who sit in their fast crumbling corporate ivory towers lobby politicians for more "fiscal responsibility" from the ABC!!!

They're watching their piles of loot diminishing in size so rapidly that even they can't ignore it anymore, but they're so devoid of real brains and intelligence, that they can only resort to trying to eliminate what they see as a competitor they reckon they can't compete against!!  

So how come the Packers and the Murdochs and the Fairfaxes managed to build their "media empires" in a media landscape that already had the ABC well and truly on the scene?  

Maybe because that generation weren't as inept or as greedy as this generation is..."My goodness, how can any mass media have such biased readership?! Perhaps because the ABC only caters for that sort of readership."

I remember; because I AM that old :-)  that before the 1967 referendum regarding counting Aboriginals on the Census; which in effect made Indigenous Australians 'citizens' with all of the rights such a designation provides one with - that many media outlets had very vocal opponents to the change.

I even recall those media commentators - especially on radio, who were fervent believers in how "the majority" of Australians were against such a move...

And I even recall to this day, how once the vote was in and the overwhelming size of the majority who wished the changes made became apparent, those same media outlets and individuals who were pushing their hatred, down-cried the silent majority who had had their say at the polling booth, as "mindless idiots" and "buffoons" who they reckoned didn't have a clue.

Reading your post took me back on a wave of deja-vu...Alison...

"Is that prerequisite of publication?"

A:  It must be; given that if you had provided an error free post, it clearly wouldn't have been published!   ;-)Clearly AE you aren't a "luvvie" because it's obvious from what you've written, you'd much rather pay for news and information that doesn't leave a bitter taste on your tongue; than follow the creed of "the market" by maximising your return by obtaining your news without cost - apart from a slightly tartish tang on your political taste buds...

Hmmm...  So; who's the more entrenched? 

The "luvvie" accepting their information without the cost - apart perhaps the cost of having to use their brain cells to interpret opinion pieces that might appear from time to time in the information they consume - or, the staunch believer in the stance taken by a news/media provider who is more prepared to keep asking for more and more (money and maybe even blind faith!!) out of those who see themselves as "sticking by" a "non-biased" provider of "freedom" in the face of "the mindless luvvies media and news free provider of hogwash"?

I applaud you for continuing to pay for all of your news etc; and wonder what you're doing hanging around somewhere like the Drum, when it's patently peopled by folks who prefer stuff for free even if it is tainted by the sort of bias you personally can't abide, because you can see straight through it, where-as you can't see through the bias from the other side that expects you to fork out dough, which means it's got to be the truth and right..."Prices went up so power companies maintained their profits, so that senior corporate executives could increase their already exorbitant salaries while expecting their reduced in number staff to either reduce their own salaries or provide 'greater efficiency' while on a lower actual salary."

I've made a slight correction to your final sentence so it more accurately reflects the reality."Hockey never said "poor people don't drive cars."

He also never said "people who call themselves 'Realist' on online forums are just trying to make out they are the only ones who see the World correctly, which implies everyone who hasn't claimed the name 'Realist' is incapable of correct thinking"; but he may as well have, eh?!!

Saying that "poor people" either "don't own cars" or "don't drive very far" implies that people who he feels don't earn enough to warrant ownership of a vehicle deserve to cop a red hot poker up the date for having the temerity to prove him wrong by not only owning a car, but driving it (out of necessity or not makes no difference) further than he reckons they ought to be able to afford!

The reality of his words - regardless of how a rusted-on attempts to warp or twist or misrepresent them as being or not being... indicate that Joe is an ignorant elitist pig with his snout well and truly in the public funded trough even as he wags his little piggy curly tail about as if he's just the ant's pants, when in 'Reality' he's just a big fat political mercenary pig who'd change sides in an instant if he saw more gravy for his snout if he switched to the other side.

Now that's the real truth 'mon ami' Realist."Just another shot at the Government."

Why defend anyone who's prepared to shoot themselves in the foot?!

The only reason I can find to defend anybody -whether it be this Government or any other for that matter; that contains individuals who speak before they think; or perhaps more accurately constantly make 'Freudian slips' whenever they open their gobs and let the sounds of words out... is that those doing the defending agree with the intent of the 'Freudian slips' of the "own feet shooters" because they'd also love to have a go at blasting away at their own toes!

If it's OK to have the right to be a bigot, then why not the right to shoot your own feet off!!

I can see why you support the present Government Mike. Good on you! Time to reload so you can let rip with another volley?"I have to speak out because its worth fighting for."

I'm sure the poor distressed members of the current Government - who according to you; are so unjustly depicted by "my ABC" (you must be well off Mike to own the whole ABC! I figure my contribution only entitles me to consider myself a funder of it's freely provided services along my fellow tax-paying Australian contributors; but to each their own version of just how important or not they are to the ?national broadcaster I suppose!!!), are in actual fact quite able to defend/look after themselves: much like the ordinary citizen is if they are incorrectly depicted or represented in any of our media outlets.

Of course, it appears what we each feel is worth "fighting for" also differs... and considering the ABC might not be currently behaving to your own lofty standards; I for one appreciate that it at least is providing an alternative (ANY alternative really!!) to the monotone, monochrome message that the "commercial" media hopes to brain wash us with.

Sure; there are people out there in the World who don't like seeing people pilloried for being embarrassing buffoons who have no idea of just how much their own actions or words - let alone their appearance or mere existence; embarrasses other people to the point where the mere mention of them/it more than once seems like it's got to be manipulated or deliberate constant barrage.

Perhaps the truth is that it's better to mention the actions/words of jackasses enough that people who might confuse such actions with what decent thoughtful people ought to use as examples enough times, that more people get the message behaving like these boofs is not going to win you anything other than derision.

That's much more worth fighting for in my opinion!!"The law, in its majestic equality, forbids the rich as well as the poor to sleep under bridges, to beg in the streets and to steal bread."

It's worthwhile when discussing 'the law', to remember (somewhat cynically I know; but how else to describe how one must look at the reality of what actually exists!!) that there's quite a difference between the "letter" of the law, and the "enacting" of the law.

For instance; while it may be true the law "forbids the rich to sleep under bridges, beg in the streets and to steal bread"; it's likely that the rich could not only avail themselves of such actions, but be "legally entitled" by their friends in the legal profession to do so.  

They could take part in a 'charity' "sleep under the bridges" event that they themselves concocted in order to "raise funds for charity" - especially a charity that they are CEO of and as CEO they'd get a healthy remuneration from.

They could stand on a street corner and quite brazenly 'hawk' some product or other and call it "a direct marketing campaign" - kinda like those vacuum selling people do, or those carpet folks often avail themselves of, etc. etc.

The 'rich' could even physically take bread off somebody, then contend they were producing a "reality" TV show that's based upon Aston Kutcher's Punk'd...  Nothing says the bread has to be given back by these knuckle brains, and even if it was, the simple fact is the letter of the law says they are guilty of theft by taking it; regardless of returning it!

Bottom line - they know, that most of us don't know, just how the "letter of the law" can be twisted or turned to favour those with the nouse to know exactly how to twist and turn it... and if you don't personally have that nouse; then it sure pays to have enough money to pay for the services of those that do!!!"An odd contradiction..."

No more odd than all those parents who with hand on heart tell the world how much they "love their kids" only to be the one's found guilty of murdering them!!

See we may love the things we surround ourselves with; but, as they say - "familiarity breeds contempt".

It wouldn't be humanity if it wasn't oddly contradictory at some point!!Hang on Anne!!!

Why give those 'wrongdoers' that ICAC exposes yet another option that's "paid out of the public purse"?!!

Jail isn't paid for by the inmates you know! It's paid for by the 'public'.

If you want a "real" deterrent, rather than just a 'sideways' promotion; the best way to do it would be to send the wrongdoers back to square "one" - i.e. demote them back to the level the rest of the public sits.  

If they have shown themselves unfit for the job they were expected to perform; then not only sack them, put them straight back into the pool of the unemployed, with their superannuation transferred into standard superannuation funds we ordinary mortals must avail ourselves of, rather than their more than generous "politician only" superannuation schemes they legislate for themselves.

Let them regain some self-respect by having to deal with the same issues that the general public has to deal with when unemployment strikes. 

Why must we keep on paying for them?  The best punishment of all for politicians who "fall from grace" would be to get them to experience what everybody who they expect to vote for them must experience when the job they thought was theirs is no longer theirs...

Send them off to Centrelink!  Let them experience the 'system' they've created for us, as just another member of the 'great unwashed'!!

That's what I'd call a "real" penalty for treating a position of responsibility and respect with such disdain!!"According to Time, we should pity white women as victims of feminism, and pity women of colour more for living without white women's feminism."

That seems like a pretty accurate assessment. 

Why pick on Time magazine for making such an assessment?

Maybe the truth hurts too much..."There is another aspect to this, which is even more difficult to consider."

No it's not!!!

It's quite simple really.  He's a nutter.  His mental state clearly put more people than himself in danger; regardless of how legal counsel is able to represent the level of danger or actual harm suffered as a result of his mental state.

Given the PC world we currently live in; where nutters like this dude not only roam free, but are treated as though they're 'poor little dears', rather than dangers to others as well as themselves and treated accordingly before they even get the opportunity to wreak their havoc on those who don't deserve it; there'll be more cases to write these sorts of opinion pieces about until something preventative is done, rather than the usual "post apocalypse" action that a supposedly 'caring' society still mindlessly adheres to.

Maybe if the emergency service workers sued their employer - i.e. the State Government in a civil court rather than allowing themselves to be sidetracked into the criminal courts; there might be a bit more action taking place, with 'identify and act' programs in place to prevent future costs to the Government!!

But, while ever it's just mere employees getting injured by these nutters, and criminal cases that'll patently 'fizzle out' being pursued as a result of their nutter actions, there won't ever be a change for the better.

As for how Leon feels after all of this?  What THE?!!!!

It's about time he actually faces up to who and what he is!!!!

Some - like me would contend that his moment of having to face up to himself and his actions is long overdue!"The issue is whether or not he intended to harm anyone."

Hmmm... I suppose some people could see suicide as not intending to harm anyone.

In comparison to some tool who doesn't intend their motor vehicle to have an accident that maims or injures innocent bystanders or emergency crews who are sent to where the recklessly used motor vehicle ended up in an accident; Mr Firth's actions appear not only beyond reckless, but arguably criminal - yet it's more likely the tool behind the wheel of a motor vehicle that does as much damage as Mr Firth's actions have, is more likely to be held accountable for their actions than it appears Mr Firth has been.

Any person who contends they didn't know what releasing compressed combustible gas into a confined space is likely to lead to is either certifiably "nuts" or motivated to commit deliberate and willful damage to more than just themselves.

He clearly failed to adhere to proper safety guidelines for the use of a gas cylinder in domestic circumstances. Guidelines that are clearly indicated on the case of the cylinder by law!!

Of course, "from the description given here" it may 'appear' that he is not guilty of any offence, but given the right description, it would not be difficult to acquit ALL of humanities greatest nutters of the crimes we know only too well they committed!!

Forgiving someone of some pretty reprehensible; if not criminal behaviour, purely because they suffer from long term depression is not - as far as I'm concerned; "humanitarian"!  It's downright reprehensible in it's own right, regardless of the "description given here", there or anywhere else for that matter!"I would guess from your continued (over)use of the word "nutter" your idea of prevention would be straight-jackets and Victorian-era asylums."

I would guess you would too!!

Calling a spade a spade doesn't change ones capacity to want to see the spade treated with far more respect and concern for it's well being, than it is by those who think of it as a "mere tool".

Regardless of what I may personally think about one particular individual and their actions - their culpability or responsibilities irrespective of their mental state; my contact over many years with those who are considered 'mentally ill', has led me to believe that the biggest danger to them is the people who think themselves "sane" or "normal"!!!

There are way too many opportunist A-holes amongst the supposedly "sane" population!

If preventing the mentally 'ill' from being abused by the "normal" population requires separating them; then why not?  Mind you; they deserve to be treated as human beings with dignity - and that's where the real issue rears it's ugly head, because there's way too many "normals" who pretend like they're offended on behalf of the "nutters" yet their actions demonstrate they see them as nothing more than meal tickets!!!

I'd actually prefer acknowledgement of the reality of the whole range of mental states that exist, rather than this whole 'denial' situation that's the current vogue - where the institutionalized sufferers are pretty much hidden in half-way houses, where abuses as bad as those represented as happening in Victorian era asylums still take place!!

The real offence is avoiding reality. Sugar coating it won't ever do anything more than hide the decay under a pleasurable veneer until the rot ends up too bad to be covered up any longer..."The best preventative action I can think of against mental illness would be to rid the world of people unable to feel empathy for their fellow human beings.

That would be, you know, people like you..."

Thanks for the perfect example of 'empathy' Calypso.

I can see that if that's the best that a powerful intellect like your own can come up with as "preventative action" - given it'd still be curative rather than preventative; then the likelihood of getting anywhere when it comes to the treatment of those suffering from mental health disorders is going to go backwards rather than forwards.

I used to believe that education would go some way towards a better attitude towards those who suffer from mental illnesses.

Now; I'm more convinced than ever, that it's impossible to educate those who think themselves already educated.  I imagine you know exactly what I mean, being the empathetic person you are and all..."But did the Crown make the right call to run the case to committal, given that the evidence was so obviously weak?"

Clearly, it was the right call for the Crown to make if the Crown wanted to avoid any Crown culpability.

Sometimes it's warranted to make it look as though "justice has been served" - especially if the ultimate 'cost', in dollar terms at least; is not carried by the Crown, despite the Crown knowing full well that it put it's own officers/employees/agents in harms way.

This sort of outcome is much better outcome from the Crown's (politicians and department heads that is) perspective, than actually attempting to prevent the same situation arising again and again - let alone paying restitution to those officers of the Crown who paid the price for doing the Crown's bidding in this particular instance.

After a few weeks everyone except those who'll pay for what happened for the rest of their lives, will have forgotten about it, and things will go back to "normal"...  

Seems to me like the perfect outcome if I was looking after the Crown's interests!!"You don't get to be chief executive of two major organisations and enjoy 12 years at the top if you're a dud."

That could read so differently if the word "dud" had an 'e' on the end of it!!!

Strange... Is it just me, or is it the changing times when "12yrs at the top" is said as though it's awe inspiring?  I remember the days when "a lifetime spent within the organisation" was what earned words of such respect, because everyone understood that if you were there for a working lifetime, you were more likely to truly believe in the success of the organisation beyond your own tenure...

Seems like the times; much like the concepts of success, happiness, loyalty, honour, responsibility, obligation, honesty, dedication, humility, equality and co-operation to name just a few... have changed beyond recognition.

Even business, apparently has changed to the point where it - according to this article at least; is "sport"!!!

And if sport is anything to go on; those who once 'starred' in it, do very well out of commentating on it once their limited playing days are over!!

Therefore, I look forward to Gail's articles/opinion pieces, turning up here on the Drum's forums in the not too distant future...

Strangely; I will continue to prefer that business people not be thought of as "sports stars", and that they actually provide the sort of committment, life long dedication and loyalty to their work (and employer) that is expected as par for the course out of subordinate employees, as stated in so many workplace agreements!!" So I have to assume that those here who constantly call for government action to reduce CEO pay are only acting out of envy."

I'd have hoped a lawyer would refrain from making assumptions... especially as when you assume, you make an ass out of u and me.

Seriously though; it's not envy that determines whether a person sees someone who's sense of self worth has not only gotten so out of hand that they demand monetary reward that proportionally would place them in the realm of 'deity' if we were living in the age of the Pharaohs, but also that those with agendas of their own play up to such sense of self worth in order to further their own plans of wealth and power, as unsustainable - it's just plain common sense.

Greed has a limit as far as the ongoing source of what is available to feed the greed. 

Too much greed, regardless of whether the greed be singular or plural in nature, and eventually demand outstrips supply.  

Surely such a simple reality is not too difficult for you to grasp.

The desire to make sure demand doesn't outstrip supply is not envy based, but pragmatic.

Clearly pragmatism isn't your strong point Peter.

I dare say you watch seagulls stuff themselves to death when they are able to guts themselves to death and wonder why they're incapable of knowing they're guttsing themselves to death...  

I know its difficult for you to comprehend, but some humans have seen where such a course of action leads. 

They aren't envious of the behaviour of those seagulls who stuff themselves to death, nor do they wish to emulate their greed driven behaviour, despite how natural it may be. Some humans are able to see the advantage to all seagulls of avoiding stuffing themselves to death in an orgy of greed.

It appears there are still some human seagulls though who don't get the drift..."all I remember was an endless parade of drum articles on how evil abbot was."

So it's "consistency of message" when it's from the extreme right of the political spectrum, but evidence of 'unthinking left wing bias' when it's presented by those you'd ultimately prefer given the boot...

No wonder your recollection is so shot..."How?"

With "pats on the back" and policies designed to aid "lifters" rather than "leaners" for starters!

I'm sure you don't think of "businesses" as being things the "not wealthy" own and run... and I'd also be certain you believe the LNP is a more "business friendly" political party than the ALP - though given some of the comments I've witnessed on the Drum's forums, it's quite possible that LNP supporters will pretend anything in order to convince themselves that they've "come out on top" in a discussion, in much the same way that many a woman just has to be the one to have the last word in an argument...

And any political party that endorses the "payment for everything" doctrine, in preference to the "somethings are the responsibility of the community" mantra, is clearly more inclined to allowing someone at the end of the payment line being the individual who has the most profit from 'payments for everything' being made.

Simplez!!!  Though I'm sure it's still too complicated for you...The other leaders of the G20 will be saying to themselves "Gee; that was 20 plus hours out of my life I'd like back!!  Thank goodness for that Tony Abbott guy though!  What a goose! He took the heat off the rest of us, to the point where we weren't put under the spotlight at all!!"

For his efforts in deflecting the spotlight from all of the leaders of the other G20 member Nations, Tony Abbott will no doubt be nominated for some symbolic International Award or other... and Tony will be the kind of really astute person, who'll accept it without having the foggiest about what he's actually being given it for!!!!
"If he had apologised the calls for apologies from other countries would never end."

That sounds like an endorsement of Vlaldimir's stance!!

Ah; isn't it wonderful how some people, when supporting their particular political hero, go ahead and provide the necessary ammo needed by those wishing for them to at least think before they write, of that exact ammo!!!

And is it that in amongst all the "Tony was right regrading MH17 and how he's dealt with Vlad", right or wrong arguments; nobody has mentioned the Malaysian P.M.'s words which mentioned high speed projectile without naming their source?

How come the P.M. of the country affected the most, isn't a 'shirt-fronting' exponent given he's got far more reason to be than our Tones?!!  Sure, Malaysia has no doubt got closer ties to Russia than us... but, there are plenty of reasons for Malaysia's leader to be more likely to 'shirt-front' Putin than ours!!  

If there was a "right thing to do", it was to allow the leader of the country who's national flag adorned the aircraft, the opportunity to lead condemnation of the act itself, and the acts perpetrators - but Tony just couldn't help himself!!  

Just like his apologists can't help themselves, and by doing so they demonstrate their complete lack of comprehending the etiquette/manners involved in the most fundamental human dealings; let alone dealing with more complex foreign matters, in exactly the same way that their "champion" Tony has.Are you suggesting Tim, that the ABC should feel sorry for Tony and report him as what he isn't just to make you feel better?!!

According to the LNP supporters posting on the ABC's leftie biased Drum forums, "telling it like it is", is a very LNP approach to reality - but clearly it's only the reality the LNP supporters want to see that's "reality" with a capital 'R'!!

When the reality is a dill in a pickle, which makes them a "dill pickle", it's apparent the "dill" must be an ALP "dill" for the reporting to be accurate and unbiased as far as the LNP fan squad is concerned.  

If the "dill" is the leader of an LNP government, all of the cheer sqaud come out crying crocodile tears and calling for less 'bias' against their hero...

Awww... "Poor diddums LNP rusted on's having to cope with criticism".  

I can see that your attitude is best explained by what a gay guy I used to know said after he was 'raped'... and we were wondering why he was so upset about it - "I only give, I never take!!""I read other media both here in Aus and overseas. That is reality."

Unless you've got a time machine or the world's fastest aircraft, plus an awesome visa system going, that's nothing more than pure fantasy!!

Though, you could be referring to the same sources that the ABC uses for it's foreign based stories. Or the same Reuters/ATP agency correspondents that every news agency/corporation avails themselves of, in which case you're no different to the rest of us.

If you're referring to your access to on-line news outlets, then it's quite clear you are only sampling those media sources that are available freely on-line/you've subscribed to because they align with your opinion/biases or have been granted access to as part of your employment, and due to time constraints, you are clearly only reading samples from foreign news outlets at best or skimming all of what is available rather than seriously reading ALL of what is available as news from overseas.

Besides, Australian politics rate about as highly overseas as stories on penguins in Antarctica taking a pee! As for any opinion they may have about our political figures... You've got to be dreaming if you think they'd either sing their praises let alone decry them - unless it was to support their own local politicians or agendas!  

The vast majority couldn't give a rat's about Australia, let alone our political figures!!

Talk about big-noting oneself though...  That's typical LNP however, so it is to be expected."Or perhaps, like most voters, he simply saw the G20 as a series of pointless and expensive photo opportunities."

Ahhh...  Not very observant there firthy.

Paula isn't a "he" name. It's a "she" name.

Getting the gender of the article's author wrong doesn't go any way towards reinforcing the rest of your contention about 'reality' or 'facts' as far as you see them..."...I would say his media circus machine is running hot."

"Da, da".

And if da heat from his media circus machine has no effect, he can run for comfort to his ma ma...  

Tony's such a "he man"!!"Good luck to him turning these ones back... Thank the gods I shipped out of the Royal Australian Navy a few years back."

Apparently the RAN's latest deterrent is larger than life images of Tony Abbott in his budgie smugglers with his ears doing that imitation of Dumbo the flying Elephant's ears that he does so naturally, that they wave at any threat!!  

Intruders into our waters either die laughing, or after feeling their retinas singed to the core by such a sight, they turn tail and make for the nearest place where optometrists can help them regain their sight!

Sadly, only senior naval staff/officers are provided with ocular protective gear, so normal ratings run the risk of suffering from 'friendly fire'...   

Bet you're even more glad you left the Navy now you know that eh?!!!"...the foe is bankrupt within a year."

And then for the real 'coup d'gras' ASIO sends in the coalition leader under the pretext that they have the answer to the Nation's debt and "ring a ding - Zing!!"  you get another banana republic that's full of easily manipulated buffoons, who seem to think that only the conservative - i.e. "tough guy" side of the political spectrum is capable of dealing with 'issues'!!

It's worked here, so why not use it elsewhere!!!"Russia's sea cruise is hardly a show of power."

So how many RAN vessels are cruising around off the Russian coast?

Yeah... We're showing those pesky Ruskies the sort of power Australia can project when we want to, if we want to!!!

Once they realise what a row boat crewed by two men armed with a ballpoint pen casing and a bag of rice for ammo, and a deceased dog can do, they'll not only be apologising straight away, but also chucking roubles at us like there's no tomorrow!!

And who's going to force Russian navy vessels out of Aussie waters if something happens at the G20 and they feel their "fearless leader" may be at risk, despite all of the Aussie supplied security?

Someone's bluff is about to be called, and it isn't Vladimirs!!!"Imagine what we could do if the balance tipped from the stupid to the clever."

OK... I'm imagining....  Hmmm... I see so called clever people who are very clever at very specific things, but with very little - let me call it "common sense"; being manipulated by stupid, yet cunning people into doing the stupid yet cunning people's bidding.

Hey!!!  I've just imagined exactly what's gone on throughout human history since the the very first hominid climbed down from the trees!!!

Most clever people, as it turns out - aren't loaded with the bullying instinct that's required to treat their fellows with the sort of 'usage' disdain required of a 'leader'.  

Leaders use everything they can use... they don't think; apart from thinking of themselves as being clever that is; hence our current political impasse.

Leaders act - in both senses of the word.

Besides; if you think about it... while you laud the clever scientists of ESA, if you were NOT a stupid leader; would you have given them nearly two billion to spend on something that had such high chances of failure?

Only someone truly stupid would put that much financial input into something so esoteric and in some ways 'non-productive of anything truly beneficial for humanity and human beings' apart from getting a man made thing to orbit a tiny speck of muck floating around in space with an even more miniscule speck of man made trash that may or may not function!!

In the final analysis; without the stupid, there's heaps of things the clever came up with that we wouldn't be now taking for granted..."The USA Congress is currently looking to pass the ASTERIODS Act which will enable private enterprise to do the above.

Clever people......."

Actually; if what makes them clever is the temerity they'd be showing in treating the asteroid belt like the British did when they declared Australia "Terra Nullis" and therefore theirs... then it's a sad day for what truly makes for, or what people believe or have been taught or convinced = "clever"!!!

How dare the U.S. pass any law/legislation/anything regarding another part of the solar system!!

The environs of space ought to be - if we're actually being clever about it; beyond the superficialities of nationality or country borders!!

The asteroid belt doesn't 'belong' to anyone; let alone a bunch of stuffed shirts in the U.S. Congress!!

It's not anywhere near clever to take the stupidity that's got this planet into messes such as greed, war and hatred, out to something that doesn't deserve it like the asteroid belt!!

I suspect your definition of clever and mine are two different beasties, and their likelihood of ever getting close enough to kiss and makeup is beyond zero."Our species will not survive an extinction level impact."

And with that news, the solar system breathes a very large sigh of relief!!!"obtaining resources for our species from the asteroid belt as a direct way of protecting (and repairing) our planet by ensuring that we do not need to extract resources from Earth, that we no longer squabble of the ability to control access to strategic resources, and thus we can limit the damage we do to this planet by our existence."

All well and good... but what happens when the millions of years balance (of sorts) that exists in the asteroid belt is upset by the removal of more and more of it's mass?

What then, if the gravitational 'harmony' that sees our planet and the other planetary bodies - including the Kuiper and asteroid belts, is upset? 

Wouldn't the natural consequences of the planets/moons and other solar system stellar bodies, necessarily adjusting themselves as they've no doubt done in the past, be somewhat catastrophic?  How would one classify the mining of the asteroid belt then?

"Oh look chief!!  Our mining efforts have meant gravitational forces have flung a couple of real extinction event asteroids directly at Earth"...  "At least we'll get to see whether those nuke anti-asteroid defence systems work, and if they don't at least we'll have a good view from up here of home being wiped out!"

To even attempt to purport that any scientist living or dead let alone any yet to be born, knows exactly how much asteroid mass can be mined and from which exact parts of the asteroid belt and which specific asteroids let alone exactly which areas of each asteroid can be mined/eliminated/moved without any effect is beyond inane fantasy!

Future generations of humanity would rightfully call any attempts to justify wholesale ravaging of the asteroid belt for future resource scavenging not only misguided, but criminal!!

Then again, they'll be the suckers who'll have to deal with what the criminally insane numpties who think they're so clever today will leave behind them.  

At least by then we'll have taken the money and run!!  Even if you can't spend it in Heaven, you can have an awesome time while you're in this mortal coil eh?!!!!"...we would be unable to remove sufficient mass to make any difference..."

So you've know everything that's involved in mining the asteroid belt Joe?

Methinks, you thought about or care about the consequences of man's activities in space, let alone the asteroid belt, about as much as you've expressed in your own post... namely; "sod all.""Astounding achievement.

Brilliant science."

Agreed.

Mind you, so too was splitting the atom.

It's what came later that wasn't the same sort of achievement or necessarily "good science"..."...nuclear weapons which have been the greatest drivers of peace the world has ever seen."

I'm sure the people of Hiroshima, Nagasaki and the veterans who were used as guinea pigs at Maralinga etc, etc agree wholeheartedly with you maus...

I've often felt that the ultimate Mexican standoff is the finest way to achieve peace, rather than any conviction or determination by those who lead us to just have peace for the simple sake of it.

Then again; given how many posts on forums like this indicate that there's way too many people who only respect the biggest of sticks, it's none too surprising that there's a need for the ultimate Mexican standoff.

It's the only thing they are capable of comprehending."...great sprits always prevail in the end..."

I gather you've never imagined that the "great spirits" you mention are only those that 'the powers that be' end up determining we should be allowed to hear about?

There are so any more names that could be added... Chandra Bose and Nicola Tesla are just two of the horde who "recognised" history not only spits on, but the powers that be have made certain we'll never know the 'truth'; let alone anything that'd make us question the status quo, about.

Mind you I do agree with Einstein, that the competent are always the targets of opposition from the incompetent.  He just tried to say it in a way that didn't upset the incompetent.

Perhaps it's time that changed."This is an absolute abrogation of Australia's international human rights obligations and takes us a lot further down the road towards the status of an impenetrable xenophobic fortress."

I personally couldn't give a bugger about Australia's international human rights obligations... as equally as I don't actually see a problem with our nation becoming an impenetrable xenophobic fortress.

I bet there's plenty of indigenous Australians who wish it had been an impenetrable xenophobic fortress a coupla hundred years ago!!!!  And I'm with 'em on that one!!

What my big issue is with, is a Government that can show such dishonour in it's dealings with those it uses.  

I don't care whether they're from some foreign and strange land.  

Our Government has employed them; which is in essence, using them in return for payment to do things that our Government can then applaud itself for doing - yet when that employee asks for some honourable consideration, all they get is spat on by self-righteous prigs who see themselves as so superior that they can figuratively urinate on someone and assuage any guilt they would or should normally feel for treating anyone or anything that's done their bidding so piddle poorly.

Now... if these pieces of verifiable human effluent who see themselves as humanities finest jewels, can treat an employee from over there like highly expendable excrement, there's no way they're not going to look at locals they think themselves better than in exactly the same way!!!

Such dishonourable individuals want to make this Nation an impenetrable xenophobic fortress for their own nefarious purposes. 

They are dishonourable scaredy cats who pretend they're tough, but are just plain bullies!!!

Such dishonourable people are beneath contempt.  That they lead this Nation is revealing!!  

That my fellow Australians don't give a bugger about honour, or being the best human beings they can be, is purely reprehensible!!"What has any of that got to do with the case in question..."

Australia participated as part of "the Coalition of the willing" in it's Afghanistan foray alongside the U.S. and it's other allies.

Are you contending that an ally has zero obligation - as an honourable ally that is; to any person who aided or abetted the efforts of the "coalition of the willing" in any nation or action it took part in?

Clearly there are plenty of apologists who don't mind avoiding their obligation as honourable people towards anyone who has acted for or on behalf of an entity that we willingly participated with - and will even come up with fanciful excuses that they hope the gullible will concur with just so they can avoid their honourable obligations."The only way for this absolute BS to be stopped is for Australia to remove itself from the utterly useless and outdated refugee convention."

Or... how's about we don't get dragged into conflicts where we're obliged to accept those from nations we've gone into to help do the dirty work of others?

Clearly it's too tough to tell those who need us to 'back them up', "Sorry chaps; this one's your own mess to tackle"?  We're plainly too gutless and besides because we'd be defenceless otherwise we need those friends to come to our aid if someone tries it on with us. 

Geez... Ain't that an attitude that's truly admirable?!!! Like NOT!! 

If you wallow in sewerage you will eventually get diseases that are caused by wallowing in sewerage!  Putting on a swimsuit after you've gone sewerage wallowing, isn't going to make you immune!!!

"An ounce of prevention"; as they say, "is worth a pound of cure.""Australia's ability to take full advantage of its global leadership position..."

Man... I'd dearly love a toke of the stuff you've been smoking!!!!

It's clearly some strong stuff!

I'm actually left wondering whether your opinion piece is some sort of subtle argument for more funding of the ANU... what with it's prime position as a leading institution of learning amongst those of such a "global leader" as Australia!!!

As for "provincial reflex"...  As long as it's a similar reflex to that shown by a sphincter when it's about to be assaulted by external forces; I'd reckon it's nothing to be derided!

I do appreciate though, that there are individuals who don't have such reflexes...  I just wish they would refrain from complaining to me later about how they've been "taken advantage of"."...the whole earth is actually greening..."

Well what else would you expect when so much ice is melting?!!!

At least, by the time we know for sure whether man's actions are turning the planet to crap... you me and anybody else commenting on the Drum forum will be either long gone, or incapable of doing anything about it anyway!!

That's reassuring - isn't it?!!!!

May as well get in for as big a slice of the gravy train as it's possible to get before some other opportunist gets it first then!!!C'mon EM...  

You know that something that's only got "righties" without any "lefties" will just go round in eternal circles - though those going round in 'rightie' led circles think that each time they cover the same old ground, they're covering something new and exciting!!

Balance as far as they're concerned, is just more "righties" joining in on the never-ending going round in circle fest!!

Then again, the same can be said for those of the extreme left... They may as well be "righties"!!"Here the Prime Minister is speaking on behalf of the nation and the families of the victims requesting Russia own up to the killing of nearly 300 people."

So you're saying that we should all go along with the P.M. who has already declared Russia "guilty" before the trial has even begun?

He's speaking for himself and angst laden Antipodeans who'll follow their "fearless leader" into where ever he wants them to go - like yourself; and NOT for Aussies like myself, who would prefer he keep his ignorant 'speaks before it thinks' mouth shut!!

And, while you can clearly turn your back on one of THE most fundamental of all jurisprudential principles that decent humanity has ever defined - namely; the concept of innocence until proof of incontrovertible guilt (that's "beyond reasonable doubt) has been presented, like a led by the nose butt licker of your 'team leader', I'll continue to reserve the right to consider my verdict until ALL of the available evidence has been tabled.

So; Tony Abbott is clearly not speaking on behalf of ALL Australians, and as he isn't, I'd prefer that angst ridden creatures of emotion over reason like yourself, refrain from declaring that he is!!!"Show me a black hole and I'll believe you, that they really do exist."

But it might 'suck you in'!!!!

Wouldn't that be ironic?!!!!  

All existence is just a con; and we've all been "sucked in!!"

Now I feel like I'm in a really dark place... It's so black. Like a real black hole!

Ever considered the reason nobody is able to show you a black hole, is because our Universe actually exists inside one?  

It's kinda hard to show someone your house from the outside, when they're inside it with you, and you're rooted to the one spot.

Again; how appropriate for us to have been gobbled by a black hole before we gained consciousness so we think we're outside the black hole, when in fact we're an integral part of it's digestive system!!  

No wonder that old 'brown smelly stuff' just "happens"!!!"Bohr wasn't suggesting that he was alluding to belief."

I thought he said it because he was just a Bohr..."The Tullock paradox emphasises how enormous the gains from rent-seeking are."

But, as you yourself stated Chris - only for the winners!

Those who've spent in so many ways and don't ultimately end up winners don't get spoken about do they!  

Like punters at the races, it's the winners everyone points to when it comes time to fanfare what the jee-jeez are 'all about' - yet the tons of discarded betting tickets that have to be cleaned up at the end of a race meeting attest to just how many losers there not only are, but just how much their accumulated losses add up to... i.e. far more than the winners take away from the pot!!

In the political game though; the accumulated angst of those 'losers' can be targeted against those who "didn't take the bait", or "didn't see the obvious advantages for everyone that seeing things our way presents"... 

In the Aussie context, that means our politicians are puppets who's string pullers must navigate a veritable phalanx of sharpened foreign owned and guided scissors that bay for the strings of any puppet that doesn't acquiesce to "the best way for you Aussies to do things"...

Sadly Chris, you've hit the nail on the head when it comes to identifying simple human nature as the mechanism that will ultimately circumvent any measures made by those who think themselves clever enough to change things to what they want - or they feel those who vote for them will want!!

People try to influence and bribe on the most fundamental level. 

Why anyone would expect it to be any different when it comes to Government or business let alone the business of Government, is beyond me - but they do and they fall sucker to all the "legislation that will prevent corruption/whatever" every time, like the naive vacuum headed sheep to the slaughter that they are.

The sooner people realise that graft and corruption are the rule for humanity and it's dealings with itself, from familial dealings right through to national and international dealings, the better.

Maybe then we can accept it and move on, rather than falling for the flim-flam that's designed to convince us that our leaders are as pure as the wind driven snow and they're doing everything to make and keep it that way, despite the fact that anyone with half an ounce of sense knows such levels of purity are not only impossible given the people who put their hands up to do the jobs expected of them, but also because of the expectations of those who curiously elected them then expect them to see things "their way"!!"Rent Australia to the Chinese..."

What's with the future tense?!!

More accurate to use the past tense... especially given who's driving so much of the housing market price rises!!  

"she is so far in front of all of the males in cabinet in performance that none of them are game to make any negative comments and I suspect also so far out in front as far as her intellect is concerned that they fear challenging her"

And that's supposed to be reassuring in terms of what exactly stevo5355?

If Bishop is performing better on the International stage than the ministers who's concerns are Australian local ones, it says foreign interests matter more than local ones.  You reckon that's GOOD?!!!  

You'd prefer the "Smile on the foreign stage and win friends amongst those who couldn't actually give a bugger about us, while the company's actors are treated like dirt behind these curtain, by a theatre owner and crew who couldn't care less about them as long as the foreign punters keep putting their bums on seats", version of a 'well' run country eh?

And if Bishop is "so far out in front as far as her intellect is concerned", the rest of the male dominated cabinet is also clearly intellectually of a level commensurate with that which would have earned them - if this was the age before political correctness; to take a ride on that special bus for kids who had 'difficulties' with motor functions, or "intellectual disorders"...

So, thanks for clearing up for those people who wondered why this government wasn't showing the evidence of mature male honour or leadership worthy of respect, exactly why that is so.

It's because a woman who's not far above average in her own actual performance and being, can appear so far above her male colleagues in every respect, that she appears unbelievably good in comparison!!!"If Abbott was one he wouldn't have a wife and I'm not a Liberal voter."

I'd say, that as a woman, you find it difficult to reconcile yourself to the fact that there are women who could live with a misogynist purely because of his social standing and ability to provide for her the sort of income and lifestyle she aspires to, in deference to her own disgust at her partner's misogyny.

Why - given there's clearly plenty of men who enter into relationships with women who are clearly misandrists, would it be so implausible for there to be the equivalent relationship combinations on the flip side of the gender fence?!

Humans do some pretty stupid things after all!!

The number of women and men I've seen willingly enter into relationships with someone who's treated them not only physically but mentally like dirt, only to go back to them again and again... as if they were addicted, is way beyond scary.  And they were/are people who are spoken about by others as "incredibly intelligent" or "amazingly capable"!

As far as I've seen, antipathy is a far harder thing than hatred to live with!!!  It's impossible to live with someone of any gender who doesn't care whether you're there or not...  But; love and hatred are two sides of the exact same coin!! From hatred can come love, as easily as hatred can come from out of love.  You can't get anything from out of nothing... which is why antipathy is not only the opposite of love, it's also the opposite of hate; because antipathy is no emotion at all.

Antipathy doesn't make for good political diatribe however, given nobody will respond if they're antipathetic!!  But have a go at someone for something they have strong emotions about and they'll have to respond - and some people love nothing more than a good fight with someone they ostensibly hate!!!!"...why should it be a problem for you if people have superior ability or aptitude to others and therefore succeed in life?"

And yet, here you are posting so regularly on the Drum forums that one is left to wonder whether you're a player who's speaking from a position of authority or merely a cheer leader for a team of players you know you'll never be a member of...

I suspect people like myself, measure "success" by a quite different yard-stick from your own.

For that, I am thankful, as no doubt are you!!Let alone, to be the most successful female minister in a government that has only one female minister is not much of an achievement!!

Though the being the lone female minister says everything it needs to say all by itself."He took everyone seriously - everyone."

PIFFLE!!  Unbridled POPPY-COCK!!!

Even as a supporter of much of what Gough stood for and achieved, I can look at him and his arrogance through eyes that aren't blinded or covered with glasses of such a rosy tint that reality vanishes up one's own fundament!!

He certainly paid little to no attention to the people of West Papua, or those in East Timor!!  Or perhaps he took those he thought of as being more important "more seriously"?!!!!

He had little time for those he thought "beneath him"; even within his own party...

One of his financial advisers of the time has been confiding to me for a couple of years now, that Gough's capacity to treat the experts who he called in for the purpose of advise, about as seriously as an elephant takes a mosquito!!

I gather from what an actual participant in the inner circle of the Whitlam government has told me, that it's quite ironic that Gough was "dismissed", given how dismissive Gough could be when he wanted to be!!

What's really disturbing, is that after this much evolutionary development, the human species is still prepared to turn a blind eye to deficiencies in those it wishes to elevate to almost deity status - rather than accepting that the warts make everyone more truly what they are; and that they achieve anything at all, much more worthy of appreciation.

Why do we have to pretend that the sweetest of orange juices comes form oranges without bitter skins - let alone from oranges with rind and seeds?!

Next thing, we'll have someone contending that Gough walked on water, that it wasn't just a dismissal, it was a crucifixion and he rose from the dead after it!!!

Give me a break...  

As a supporter (more often than not) of Labor, this whole 'glorification' thing is indeed starting to wear more than a tad thin..."Thus both of these social and class movements have been stuffed up by the rich for everyone."

What?  

Is there no possibility that some of the butt-lickers amongst the working class not only aided in handing control of democracy or social services through deliberate collusion, but also mindless stupidity and/or total lethargy?!

I'd recommend a close viewing of the current add on TV that very clearly elucidates the carrot that's been dangled for donkeys years in front of those whose greed outweighs their common sense...  You know the one: with the jingle about "we ALL want something better", as though anyone who's actually happy with what they've got is some sort of miscreant who deserves a good slapping around - or at least that's what the accompanying imagery indicates!

From my perspective, the 'fault' - if there actually be any; lies as much with the duped as with the dupers... 

There is after all, only opportunity for the opportunists of this World if the opportunity presents itself!!  

In human terms, that means there's only opportunities for those individual opportunists of our species to take hold of if other people hand the opportunity to them... 

Just because they might lie and cheat and weedle their way further into the opportunity or to entrench themselves onto the gravy train, doesn't mean they crafted the opportunity. 

The opportunists could have been confronted with the terms and conditions required to ride a train "meant for all", long ago by the passengers already riding the train... but like passengers on the trains of today; who hide behind their newspapers if something sounds like it could be 'controversial' or threatening to their peace and quite, or more often than not they seem to hope that everything will "just sort itself out", those who could and should have taken a stand didn't.

Why blame anything other than the gutless dweebs who whine like stuck pigs after they've been robbed by the rich, when they could have prevented the theft in the first place?!!  

The 'vox populi' has rapidly become just a "pox-uli" that's like an immune system that is self harming...  In that way, we're very much like overpopulated rats that start tearing into each other, rather than working together towards a common and far more beneficial result.
"I ll swap a dozen eggs for a couple hands of banannas"

So what's the going rate on foreign holiday travel, a new car, a home and food for your expected lifetime?

You got a kid or two you can guarantee will work for me loyally after I train them?  

I expect total obedience, and they'll need to sign a contract that sets out their obligation to me... I will call the contract a "workplace agreement".

Rest assured; I'm a magnanimous barterer of kids for goods!  They'll be guaranteed a lifetime of slaving away on my behalf, in order to earn just enough that they'll believe they're slaving away for themselves, while I manage to extract the vast majority of material benefits from their labour...

Now that I think about it; you got a wife as well?  I'm sure we can sort out a deal for her as well.

And, are you planning on doing anything with the rest of what remains of your existence?"A new reason to remember the fifth of November."

Only if you're into lauding the actions of barrow pushers who just can't help themselves - even when they are invited to speak at something that's supposed to have the gravitas/dignity/apolitical sensitivity of something like Gough Whitlam's memorial service...

In that regard, as in "so many areas of Australian public life", matters of appropriateness/etiquette/plain old common sense/self restraint/self respect/responsibility are spat on by the actions of those who deem their own issues or those they just can't prevent themselves from shoving down other people's throats, as way more important than anything anybody else might be there for.

Celebrating 'slackness' by ignorant bozzos - regardless of their race or how much one agrees with their political sentiment; when it's shown at totally inappropriate venues, merely serves to demonstrate quite the opposite to what the author of the call for celebration contends is being demonstrated for us all to see!

Paul Keating might like to spout words like "The reward of public life is public progress"; but the few I've got to say regarding politicians/public progress, and the behaviour of political barrow pushers at public events like 
Gough's memorial service are, "the reward for the public when pollies can't even recognise that there's a right time to say stuff and a wrong time, is yet another backward step"!!!

No wonder the general populace doesn't have a clue how to behave!!

Now our journalists are lauding poor behaviour as if it's something almost worthy of a V bloody C!!!

Teachers have a big enough hill to try and climb as it is!  Now we can add the media to the growing throng of mongs who are lowering the standards of behaviour to the lowest of low common denominators...  Nice!! 

Thanks Jonathan - like NOT!!!"...we employ the government, not the other way around."

The AFP has taken note of that comment...  Filed as metadata for future reference."'Advocacy', as the author calls it, is an entirely proper role..."

So is urination, but it's how the urination is done that makes the difference between how the urination is interpreted by those either urinated upon or witnessing the urination.

"Advocacy" is exactly the same.

See, the usual practice is for the politicians to pass their legislation, and once it is passed, a public appearance backed by the relevant public service department chief/head/senior officer who may provide vague guidelines of the enactment of the legislation, is appropriate.

The presence of such senior departmental officials prior to proposed legislation being ratified, and speaking of it as needing to be ratified, is indeed counter to public service policy, where political affiliation and promotion is deemed a breach of public service independence.

Requesting funding/resources or even changes to legislation in order to 'more effectively carry out the task the Department has been created to oversee" is all fine as it does not have a particular political agenda driving it - even though it could; and such 'lobbying' is usually done via the means accepted for doing so.

Publicly supporting a politically motivated change to legislation prior to the passing of that legislation would be considered reprehensible behaviour if it was the behaviour of a junior public servant, especially if the junior public servant was dressed in uniform as though they were representing the views of the whole Department.  

Fine if they were 'off-duty' and just backing something as a private citizen!!

The fact that they're the Senior most officers, and junior officers wouldn't pipe up, just goes to show how gutless some people can be sometimes.

Lets hope the ADF isn't like that over their pay determination!!!"...there is not a thing we the people can do about it."

Well there is in fact plenty "we the people" can do about it; it's just that most people couldn't be bothered because they "don't want any trouble mate"...

Either that or they're smug about how they're purer than the wind driven snow - forgetting of course that the supposedly purest man who's ever lived; what with being the son of God and all... still managed to be crucified.  

Despite the evidence, they still manage to spruik that age old furphy of "if you've got nothing to hide, you've got nothing to fear", as if they have nothing to hide - except they don't know what it is that's actually being looked for!!

Meanwhile; anybody who contemplates "doing something about it" might just find their butts on the end of some democratically applied steel capped booty!!  Ah the irony!

From "Government by the people, for the people", we're on the verge of achieving "Government by the paranoid for the paranoid"; and all because the mosh is so gutless despite it's tatts and piercings..."new type of crime, hack the database then blackmail people to hide their secrets"

I'd have thought that would be an optional service ISP's could offer; much the same as the service accountants currently offer "valued" clients in disguising certain forms of income as other 'entities' that won't draw attention if reviewed...

I'd bet London to a brick, that many LNP politicians would be first in line for a bit of on-line 'secret hiding' if it was offered as a service "to valued clients" in the same way accountants offer their financial manipulation services to their "valued clients"!!
"If you want to obscure your Internet access there are means available already that have not been cracked by anyone."

The best of the lot, is totally disconnecting. The only network you then need is the one using gigabit on a LAN to your other on site computers.

Then with the money you've saved per month, go buy and train some carrier pigeons, and hope that the Government doesn't train hawks to intercept them...
"Even if the legislation is passed, can't we have it reversed."

That's a good one!!!!

I wasn't sure anyone actually existed who could be that naive...

If the legislation is passed mozzers, there ain't NO WAY any politician alive is going to totally and absolutely reverse or totally rescind it!!!!

It's too good for them to turn their backs on -regardless of the political party they belong to!

Given the fact that power corrupts, and absolute power corrupts absolutely; the tools used to gain absolute power exert their spell equally on those who hunger for absolute power.  Politicians are in the game of obtaining absolute power. 

If they weren't they'd be crushed and trampled into irrelevance by the ones that are!!

Conclusion: the law stays, regardless of any or all assurances that it'll get revoked, if it gets passed." Richard Branson and his space venture is celebrity news - it's distraction, not what matters most."

In your opinion that is!!

And given that it's just in your opinion; there's the possibility that Dicky B's space venture could be more than just celebrity news; or mere distraction... indeed, it could even turn out to be a defining factor in mankinds' next evolutionary/devolutionary/"who knows until it's not only happened but become such a part of history that it's almost genetic" step!

See; some of the defining moments of recent human history - i.e. post WWII, have been the events that unfolded during the 1960's.  

One of the most seminal of those events, was the landing of man on the moon... and I daresay, that even Dr Rosewarne would agree - yet, those guys took far more risks than Virgin Galactic to achieve their goal!  And ultimately it was a goal that ALL mankind shared in; despite the U.S. being the driving force; and the cold war being the ultimate stimulus for the achievement of landing on the Moon.

So, I would contend - and this being my own opinion; that life is in and of itself a risk, and one of humankind's greatest fantasies is controlling that risk to the point where it's totally and absolutely eliminated.  To me, it is logical; in the light of that contention/conclusion, to continue attempting to attain things that have shown themselves worthy in bringing people together, rather than setting them apart, even as efforts are made to lessen the risk for those who follow.

The International space station (ISS) should provide an example of the best of humanity when it works towards common goals. 

That Virgin Galactic has taken up a gauntlet that NASA dropped decades ago is more a mark of Branson's desire to actually get to see his planet from a position that very few of us have ever done so.  That those who have seen it from space universally talk of how doing so changed their perception of the planet: of our species and our role in looking after the planet we live on, would seem to me incentive enough to have as many of us experience the same thing as possible, before our contempt born out of familiarity with the place ends as badly as it could!!
"Given our inability to take action to save the planet we might need to find somewhere else to live one day..."

But if we do find somewhere else, we'll just be transporting our insanity somewhere that probably doesn't deserve it!!!

"Yes I understand that the concept of private space tourism is a bit self indulgent."

So you're saying there's a form of "space tourism" that ISN'T a bit self indulgent?

I'd have thought most human behaviour is 'self-indulgent'...

Surely one of the most self-indulgent activities of the lot would have to be writing opinion pieces that are funded and disseminated by a publicly funded media organisation in the expectation that other self-indulgent individuals would comment upon that opinion after it's been published..."Conscious risk taking is one of the most uniquely human and important human traits."

As is unconscious risk taking...

I suppose unconscious risk taking could be ascribed to other species though, couldn't it?    :-)"If we do not explore space and colonise the Moon and Mars, our species is finished."

Wave "bye, bye" to the Moon and Mars then!!!"Surely while past imperialism no doubt exacerbates the issue, and can set things off by leaving a vacuum, it seems too convenient to pin it all on that."

The best excuses for a bit of biffo are always convenient ones!!

And we don't mind opening our arms in welcome to those who are pretty well genetically disposed to using any excuse; let alone sticking to "convenient ones", for a bit of biffo...  Aren't we nice?!!

Ah well; the Vikings eventually settled down.  Maybe ISIL will too - just don't hold your breath!!"What he really means by a mature debate is to make everyone share the blame."

IF ONLY!!!!

There's a bunch of people who by definition, won't share the burden of the blame... Politicians - and specifically those who support a "market guided economy"!!

A "mature debate" can only happen when those calling for it are prepared to accept their own role in why such a debate needs to take place in the first place!!!!

As for bringing the GST into calls for "tax reform debate"... to me it's like bringing the need for more chefs into the "let's bring more options for a menu that's so broad it'll confuse the crap out of a clientele that has finally gotten used to the menu we've got down pat, rather than actually refining and improving the elements within that menu that we know could and should be refined and improved."

It's just intellectual flim-flam designed to confuse the frig out of those bereft of the sense that tells them they're being duped, and convince them that "yeah; it's the debate we must have!"... and when enough are duped into it, those doing the duping, know they can go ahead with impunity on enacting further extraction of resources from those they've duped, while handing even more largess to their fellow dupers!!

The GST is just fine. Any fine tuning of tax can be done by the sorts of ancillary tax adjustments that they're making any-flaming-way!!!  Tax adjustments like those just made to petrol... let alone adjustments that can be made to income tax rates, levies and duties.

Farting around with the GST is just smokescreen stuff that'll have the LNP's true believers jumping up and down for joy at just how much such a move proves "their team is prepared to make the tough choices" (while not spotting that it's them who'll be the butt of the tough choice when it gets enacted; but, they're not too bright so we can forgive them for being so dense), while hoping that those on the other side of the political divide will "um and ah, about whether it really is time to perhaps take a look at everything, rather than retuning an already functioning engine"...

Meanwhile; the pollies sit back sucking on their imported cheroots and patting themselves on the back for getting even more gravy loaded onto their own personal gravy train - and not having to do any of the lifting to get it there!!!"The GST is a REGRESSIVE TAX and as such an undemocratic one.

Example: ..."


Huh?!!!  Like... "What THE?" Andries G!!!

I'm certainly no LNP lover, nor a fan of the GST; but... the GST is a lot more "democratic" as a tax than many, many more of the taxes that have been or will be devised!!!

It's a 'flat rate' tax - in Australia's case 10%.

Your example would make much more sense if you had used the one tenth principle - but, I have the suspicion, that you don't actually understand the 10% is 10% regardless of how much you try to make 10% seem like it's some other percentage other than 10% mathematical rule!!!

So; if Y had 10 pairs of shoes, Y would have to donate 1 pair of shoes. Y has 9 pairs left - irrespective of whether they're winter or summer style!!

Z has four pairs. Z has to donate one tenth of those 4 pairs just like Y had to donate one tenth of their ten pairs... leading to the use of some serious cutting gear to facilitate the donation of 0.4 of one of those four pairs.

In essence - the GST charges everyone the same level of tax regardless of who you are.  You can't get much more "Democratic" than that when it comes to tax!!!


Perhaps the simple things are just too difficult for those who really should be able to naturally relate to something so simple..."It's regressive, Steve_C, because it leaves poor people with proportionally less disposable income."

Oh my God...  "proportionally less..."  What THE?!!! So proportionally less is worse than disproportionately less?!!  Yikes!!!

I knew as a teacher, that there would be times things as simple to understand as "a half of something is half of it regardless of whether it's half of something big, or half of something small" would never, ever make sense to certain students...

Thanks Miowarra for demonstrating that my knowledge such people existed not only then, but have clearly just grown up into larger versions of what they were back then, with nothing but their mass changing.

I'd be staggered if I didn't know otherwise, that people still can't grasp the concept of 10% of something big, being commensurate with 10% of something not so big. 

Why is it so difficult to recognise that 10% for someone who has a lot is just 10% of what they've got exactly the same as it's 10% for someone who doesn't have a lot?!

Crikey!!  I don't have a lot and I can still grasp the concept that the 10% I pay is exactly the same as the 10% somebody else pays regardless of whether they're a well off knob or an economically challenged!!

If you don't wish to pay as much tax, you don't buy as much stuff!!!  SIMPLZ!!!!

As a 'poor' person, I have no difficulty with the 10% GST. Also as a 'poor' person, I'm saying - loud and clear; "leave it at 10%!!" and educate my fellow Aussies when it comes to comprehending that the 10% GST is better than jigging other taxes so that the poor get disproportionately screwed when it comes to tax!!

I know beating one's head up and down against a brick wall might seem like a Aussie national pastime; but boy it can get wearing after almost a lifetime of it!!
"Flat tax, flat Earth, flat head - they're all fantasies and factually wrong."

So easy to say that from what is clearly your own two dimensional perspective."Will it not again leave the government with yet another dwindling source of income, and, particularly if it is increased, a cost advantage for overseas Internet shops?"

Well... except for OS vendors whacking on premiums simply because we're Aussies and hey figure they can rip us off by charging us heaps extra than customers anywhere else on the planet!!

Just look at software vendors for instance!  There are a growing number who display a quite reasonable price on-line; but when you go to purchase you get the "your Australian price is..." - and that Australian price is inevitably so much more than the Singapore or U.S. or Europe price as to make one spit chips!!

Then there's the other OS vendor 'rip-off' that's called the ever increasing "postal charge"!! 

Sometimes the postal charge is radically more than the cost of the item/s being posted!!  Especially if we're talking Blu-ray/DVD/CD disks...

So; as a person who avails himself of OS vendors for a growing number of items/materials, I can quite honestly say that I now seek out local online stores in preference to the OS ones (where possible) before committing to a purchase!

Sometimes; contrary to what your post implies, the local online supplier is not only cheaper when postage is taken into account, but also more able to deliver in shorter time, with better product support/follow up if/when the product is delivered damaged/inoperative/not as advertised...

BTW, Customs doesn't have to open parcels... it scans them ALL and only opens those that either don't match the manifest documentation or are clearly suspicious.

Sure Gerry Harvey bleats... that's just the inevitable unhappiness of someone who's greed means they can never ever gather enough wealth and goods and power to themselves that will make them happy and content.  

People who are happy and content ignore the bleatings of wieners like Gerry.  That explains why so many politicians and media corporations pay so much attention to whatever Gerry says..."In any case, you must rememebr that most GST is collected on services not goods."

Yeah... I guess that explains why the acronym GST is made from the first letters of the words "Goods" "Services" and "Tax" - because the tax is collected 'mostly' on services not goods!!!   "Yikes!!!"

That's why it's called the Goods and Services Tax; because it's a tax designed mainly for services not goods RIGHT?!!!!  "Oh my God"...  

It appears I'm surround by 'dingus dongus' no brighter than a dead doggies donger types in the land of Aus!!!

For the writers of comedy material, there's pure gold just waiting to be mined in so many of the pieces of fantasy that appear on the Drum's blogs!!

The nugget that resides in the "The income is that of the States not the Federal Government." part of Peter the Lawyer's post is not only pure; it's of a size that miners seeking comedy gold have rarely seen, let alone dreamed of finding just sitting there - not even needing to be panned!!

I suppose for the most awesome comedic punch line, Pete will retort that the office that's there to administer the collection of tax is State and not Federally owned and run... and that tax law/statutes/guidelines are determined by State Parliaments and not Federally determined or administered.

Just like Australia Post or Australian Customs eh Pete?!!

Or for an even bigger laugh, he'll contend that the Federal Government just pays for the ATO, who in an act of generosity almost unheard of in the history of humanity; just give money to the States rather than collecting it for the Federal Government to apportion to the States as part of the Commonwealth's obligation under the Constitution to share the wealth in common.

Perhaps I woke up yesterday in an alternate Universe? 

That might explain what's happened to the sanity of my fellow Australians...  or at least I'm hoping that's the case; because if these comments are indicative of where the head spaces of Aussies who reckon "they're really, really smart and know stuff" are at - we're in pooh-cack that's deeper and thicker than any pooh-cack filled cess-pit has ever been filled with!!!"The batts work, and work well..."


That kind of common sense does not a Royal Commission make!!

And clearly; that Aussie cricket team will be hoping for an Abbott led inquiry into their failure against Pakistan!!!!"Personally I have lost the small amount of trust I had in Australian politics."


I find that difficult to believe!!

Clearly, you didn't have even the tinniest drop of trust - but pretending that you did have some, makes it sound better!!!!"Don't think this writer understands free markets."

Oh Georgie... You shouldn't be so harsh on yourself; despite how accurately you've described EVERY so-called "Free" market system EVER!!!

Perhaps the two most accurate words you've used to describe how you rigorously test your own opinion or those of others, are the two very first words of your post...This whole Spurr-Peris 'beat up' is like watching kids in the playground trying to justify themselves with tit-for-tat inventions!

Talk about confected angst!!

Meanwhile; I'm more concerned that Prof. Spurr's personal biases may be used to define the future curriculum that is used for formulating how and what is taught to students in English classes!

Surely the teaching of English and the curriculum that directs it in this country needs to be less "Americanised" and more "Australianised"!!  

It's clear to me, that Prof. Spurr's recommendations take the subject further away from "Australianised", and much more towards "Americanised", despite the veneer some people may see them of having, that would ostensibly return some 'good old fashioned English values' to the teaching of English..."Actually she's expressed some pretty concerning views/opinions about what she thinks of white people in Australia."

I've got some views/opinions about white Australians that some people would no doubt see as being "concerning"...  They're my views and opinions.  They don't mean I'm going to change my desire to be the best possible person I can be, nor as friendly and happy-go-lucky when I'm out in public as my health at the time allows me to be.

I even have the prerogative/right to change them whenever I feel like it, as others have the right/prerogative to change theirs as freely too.

My - or anyone else's for that matter; ethnicity, creed, physical characteristics, gender etc, etc, surely shouldn't make any difference?

And while I agree with you that "you have to use the same measuring stick", I'd contend that it shouldn't matter about the place where the same measuring stick is used, as equally as it's important that one shouldn't try to make one measuring stick fit something that's it's not actually appropriate for, despite how some people may try to force it to fit.

BTW; I expect your observation that Nova may have just been trying to "impress this guy", is not too far off the mark... in which case, she's just shown she's human.  How many of us aren't?"It also shows she was functioning well below her pay band."

Oh really?!!!!

How's about you write for all of us to see, the terms and conditions associated with Nova Peris' "pay band" eh?

Set out the expected functions of someone of her pay band in the form of terms and conditions... in the manner that every employee - for instance; is expected to sign off on as a workplace agreement.

If you can manage to do that; I'm sure you'll have managed to more clearly elucidate where Sen. Nova Peris has erred - and as long as your terms and conditions align precisely with the terms and conditions associated with the position of Federal Senator, you could well be said to have a justifiable concern rather than confected and overly politically biased concerns designed to obtain a predetermined result that doesn't give a bugger about the person you'd much rather see gone."I'd like to know who has a drinking or other health problem. "

Well - especially given our politicians have expected certain professions to be tested for drinking or drug taking prior to the carrying out of their work tasks.  

So; if people in certain professions are expected to "fore-go the right to privacy given the number of people any action they take if they are under the influence of alcohol/drugs or any other external influence of their actions"; why not politicians, given the whole Nation ultimately relies upon their actions and decisions!!!

Double standards abound however...  Your taxi driver can be tested for having a glass before work; because the pollies say he might put your life (or someone else's) in danger - yet our pollies can chug a whole bottle of Bourbon before besottedly vocalising their affirmation of sending outr troops off to fight and maybe die on their behalf in some patch of foreign filth.

Privilege does - it appears, bring privilege - one of which is the privilege to see oneself as much more important than everybody else; hence their privacy is way more sacrosanct than your's or mine!!!C'mon Alan!!

This whole "egg freezing" thing is like Tony's PPL scheme!

Sure, the more gullible females will run towards it screaming their support, like moths fly towards a flame... but; it's quite clear that pressure to employ less females will be the outcome.

I mean, why employ women, regardless of their suitability for a position, if you are expected to consider the extra cost of maintaining zygotes that may be used by that female employee at some future indeterminate date?  

While that might seem like a bright idea when it's brought up at some senior executive meeting - as an idea to be leveraged by senior executives... not general 'staff': it won't take long to dawn on those who manage the purse strings, that it may not be such a bright idea - but, it could be a good public relations exercise that the gullible will fanfare as being "really cool", while failing to recognise the sting in the tail; namely, the incentive human resources is handed for employing men in preference to females who could cost the company more.

It's a win-win for the company!!  They seem to women like they're champions of all things nice for women; while the end result is actually getting more men into the workforce!!

Very subtle psychology!"I am quite convinced that such suspicion and scrutiny is purely based on WHO is giving these options."

YOU might be, but then someone else might be able to assess them purely upon their merits/implications/possible ramifications...

I guess it's not always possible for everyone to be empirical about the suspicions or scrutiny they apply to policies let alone proposed schemes that come from political/business sources.  

From my perspective, that's just human nature. Not everyone is built or thinks the same.  

Thank Goodness for that!!!

As for Gillard championing the Abbott version of the PPL scheme... despite the impossibility of that; given it wouldn't be Abbott's scheme if Gillard had come up with it... but even if she did, I'd still see it as the same knuckle brained scheme that'd end up with exactly the same result of employers feeling less inclined to employ women as the Abbott version!!  

And if egg freezing was being touted by a female CEO with a predominantly female board of directors, I'd be flogging off my shares in their company real fast; given they'd just exemplified how talented they are in the positions they have managed to con for themselves!!  I don't like investing in 'lemmings' you see.

In the end, why would the person proposing something make what's being proposed any different?!!

I guess there are quite a few people out there who'd let the person be more important than the message...

Maybe that's why we've got Abbott as Prime Minister...   ;-)"does anyone seriously believe that fossil fuels will last forever?"

There's clearly more than enough human fossils keeping our political/economic and social systems fueled and running; and they sure don't look like running out any time soon!!!

The proof, as they say is in the pudding!  And the pudding's proof is that the gravy train is keeping lots of fossils well and truly fueled.  Why would they ever want that to stop?  

Why would they even allow themselves the next best thing to criminal for such limited intellectual capacity individuals of their ilk thought, that it could ever stop?"Smoking and drinking?
C'mon, most of the expense of these habits is in TAX !!!"

Well; if you aren't smoking and drinking as a 'poor' person, the efforts of our current politicians of ALL persuasions would be enough to drive you to take them up as wholeheartedly as you could afford to do - even at the expense of everything else!!

The benefits of smoking/drinking as near to a chimney/fish as you could afford, are an earlier leaving of a mortal coil where everybody despises you, treats you like dirt, demeans your efforts no matter how much effort you actually put in or just plain laughs at you as a "loser"!!  

What self respecting person would wish to live a long healthy and totally compos mentis existence, knowing that's how other individuals who are so high and mighty about themselves as being superior see them as being?

And to add insult to the injury, lets just squeeze the last drop of blood from the dried up next to devoid of any remaining moisture 'stone' that is their existence, to make the lap of luxury for the better off even more luxurious!!! 

Nice...
"Why is Abbott considering a GST hike?"

Because once he implements a rise to the GST, he recognises that he'll be very likely out of a job and wandering through the wilderness?

I know my verbal response to Tony wanting to raise the GST rate is something along the lines of "take a hike!!"; so I guess it's only natural he's contemplating such a journey, given how much he's demonstrated his desire to act on what ordinary Aussies like me tell him..."Are you kidding?"

I guess it depends on how anal retentive you wish to be in the definition of the term "conservative"... 

Some inflexible people won't be able to - for instance; ever concede that there could be 'conservative' members of an ideology that's labelled by those who determine themselves clever enough to label things, as being  'progressive' - as equally as there won't ever be people who look in the mirror and pat themselves on the back for seeing someone who's "flexible and progressive" looking longingly back into their own eyes in self adoration; who'd ever concede there could be "non-progressive" individuals who are anything but 'conservative' in not only how they live their lives, but deal with their fellow humans.

Some people know only black and white.  

Thank goodness there are people who know not only that black plus white equals infinite shades of grey, but any lines that define the shades are mere abstract constructions created by those who do understand, in an effort to help those who'll never understand at least get close to comprehending what they'll never comprehend."Fears grow as a person ages."

Maybe for older people who have spent a lifetime attempting to accrue more wealth, power and ego inflating deeds to recall about themselves it might!!

For other ordinary people, aging brings one to the realisation that not only are you closer to the pine box/crematorium, but a lot closer to the time when it matters about "Jack!!" how much coin, political muscle, hot wives or celebrity kids and family one has managed to amass in life; because the worms and the flames don't discriminate.

The only 'ordinary' older people who might be fearful, are those who get suckered by the peddlers of fear - like those advertisers who declare "you don't want to leave your kids with all that funeral debt when you pass"!!  

As if it wasn't bad enough to be informed as young parents that "you have a responsibility to make the world a better place for your kids" with advertisers encouraging those aforementioned young parents to work hard and save up so "your kids will have a legacy that you've left for them so they won't have to struggle"!!!

Once you're old enough, you tend to figure out... unless you're a docile led by the nose goose that is; that humans are considered THE cash cow gravy train that needs to be harvested by the more clever 'Ricardos' who feel entitled to live like leeches off their fellow humans.

If you wish to be a fearful old led by the nose cash cow for those who only care about their own welfare as you journey on into the night... by all means!

But please refrain from pigeon holing those of us who raise a disdainful middle finger at those who'd rather make our lives miserable, while we set about enjoying what we've got left of this mortal coil, rather than being distracted by the fear mongers of the Universe!!"So let's destroy the New Matilda by boycotting its advertisers and pinting out that its editor is a leftist loon whose views are abhorrent."

I guess you could try; but you'd end up having about as much success as those you are clearly accuse of attempting to do the same thing to Prof. Spurr.

See; if you think about it, you might come to the realisation that behaving in the way you've described, won't actually prevent anyone who thinks like Prof. Spurr, from continuing to think like Prof. Spurr.

In fact, the behaviour you suggest is being directed at Prof. Spurr would be much more likely to entrench opinions/beliefs/views like the professors'  in the minds of those who think like him - which explains why you've acted on the spur of the moment with such a knee-jerk response, that rather poorly attempts to use 'irony' in a reverse sarcastic sense, to highlight what you see as the inanity of the attack/s on Prof. Spurr.

Of course, calls for such action against an individual - whilst no doubt made knowing there's the option of stating"they were made in jest"... does fall within the perameters of the new legislation covering "incitement to act"."...why protect person B's identity, unless it was person C."

You seem to be demonstrating your 'bully-boy' capabilities to the fullest there a happy little debunker!!!

Your words sound just like something one of the godfather's 'consigliere' would say to people "under the godfathers 'care'...

"So Y'z uz all protegdin  pursen B, unlez Uz all nose idz pursen C?!!   Now Uz nose da godfarter iz a payshunt man, but ee aynt gunner wayt 4-eva... so Uz bedda b senzabl n rad da rad owd!!!"

I suspect the story would be radically different if you were Person B!!!  Oh, how the song tune and lyric would change..."...and only a matter of public interest if they did nothing about it."

And how do you know that the fact the issue is now hitting the fan, is NOT due to someone who received the e-mail expecting the University to do something about it; and they haven't - until now of course?

Everybody is making assumptions based on their own beliefs/political persuasion/biases/etc, etc... when the truth about how all of this has come about is not something any of us is privy to - as yet...

And no doubt; even when we are made privy to "how/why/etc/etc", most people will still stand by what their prejudices/political persuasion/biases/etc, etc.. tells them.

The only thing I can say regarding Professor Spurr is... as a former University/TAFE lecturer/teacher, I've come into contact with 'academics' with more letters after their names than most people have written in a lifetime, yet they proved themselves about as capable of comprehension of life's realities as a lump of 4x2.  

Life's reality in this particular case, is that you never ever use something like a @.edu.au e-mail account for anything other than work related messaging!!  Still; as I said, my experience has been that many academics don't consider how stuff like the internet or e-mail works as worthy of their knowing or comprehending - which goes some way to explaining why they come a cropper when they mindlessly use it for stuff like this.  

Heaps of them think themselves above such stuff... until it bites them on the bum; then they run around trying to find a lawyer who'll act on their behalf - though I dare say in Prof. Spurr's case, he had one "recommended"...    ;-)As someone who saw Whitlam as the best alternative to the slavishly U.S. kowtowing string of  LNP PM's from Menzies to Gorton/McMahon, I can honestly say... can we please stop with all this "What would Gough have done", or "Did you know Gough did this?!", or "Gough blah-de, blah de blah!!"

Sure I shed a tear at seeing another major player of the time of my formative teen years pass; mainly because it reminded me of just how dismal the young people of today are when it comes to so many of their capabilities...

On the other hand; all these so-called "articles" that look back at Gough, while taking a back-hander at the present LNP's (read Tony Abbott's) anglophile revisionism (for those who don't have a clue what I'm meaning; that's the Tony Abbott led "I just love everything about that long lost British Empire! The pomp, the ceremony, the fact that men knew they were men and women stood behind their men like the dutiful partners and daughters they were expected to be"), attitude that palpably underpins so much of the present LNP's actions and policies, are making my stomach churn!

Crikey!!  Gough is dead. Get over it!  It's actually almost as if Gough's passing is being leveraged by people who really couldn't care less about him while he was alive; but now that he's gone, figure they can use his passing to aid their own agenda/s!!

That's so like what Tony Abbott would do it's not funny!!!

So - to answer the headline question... I don't care what Gough would have done, because what he would have done is what he would have done, and now that he's gone, we won't know what he would have done; so the question is pointless and beyond rhetorical.

The really important question to ask now is: "What the Hell are we going to do now that another great Aussie has bitten the dust?  Be independent in our thoughts and actions, or just go back to bowing down to our foreign 'saviours' with our heads down and our greased butts raised?"  

From the looks of it, it seems like there's quite a lot of Aussies who don't mind a good foreign shafting!!!  I don't see a lot of protesters saying otherwise!If the people calling for the banning of the 'burka' actually got their way; once they popped their peepers on those their calls have revealed; they'd be clamouring for the immediate return of the 'burkas' they'd only just demanded be removed!!!

It's also more than possible, that those calling for the banning of such a garment, would dearly love to force any gorgeous female offspring/mate of their own to wear something pretty similar!!  

Not that I'd ever imply that there'd ever be double standards being promoted in a country like Australia...  Not half mate!!!       ;-)" We need help and money when things go wrong but leave us alone the rest of the time and get your mitts off our business..."

Writing your words out as though they're spoken like every kid in the land these days (and plenty from past decades too BTW!!) would speak them, gives your words - I feel; that ring of immediacy that any parent would understand!!!

Of course, the kids who not only would say that but believe it wholeheartedly just grew up and became "business people" - or in this case "Bankerz"!!What word most appropriately rhymes with "Bank"?

I'm convinced that word clarifies everything anyone EVER needs to know about banks and those who run them.

If ever there were institutions devoted to the art of self-aggrandisement; its got to be banks!!

Why then do we take them so seriously?

Perhaps it's because we're suckers who let them get a hold of our short and curlies, via the mechanism of lending us our own savings back?

One has to wonder who the biggest numpties in all of this are... Those who've convinced us "banks are too big to be allowed to fall", or those who believe "banks are too big to be allowed to fall"?!!!

As for bank executives being "worried"?!!  Ha!!!  

They certainly aren't worried about the likelihood of being 'shirtfronted'!!!

Their biggest concern is whether they'll be able to get a 150% larger per annum bonus for failing to EVER perform during their time on the job!"The nation has well and truly changed since the Pacific War. Hence the flag has nothing to do with patriotism but largely represents tribalism, a symbol for those who wish to wallow in the past and all things British."

Tell that to the overwhelming majority who continue to pour water all over the fires that the "change the flag" proponents keep trying to light from time to time...

If the argument is that there shouldn't be any problem changing it, because it's just symbols made out of coloured bits of fabric - well it's just as reasonable to accept the coloured bits of fabric and the symbols that are already there!!  

If the objection is to the symbols themselves and what some gullible twerps either have been told or have dreamed up as being their 'meaning'; it becomes clear the objectors have a serious problem with accepting that the past is the past and making the present better than the past is a worthy cause that is worthy regardless of the flag one does it under, and if the future can be made even better still, then the flag acquires even more worth.  

Some people just seem to want to cling to angst as if it's the only thing that gives their lives meaning... Sad really."I'm still not seeing the racism."

Agreed Richo.

However, I'm not so sure the objection to the singlet is necessarily a "Greens" or "Left" thing though, given I'd consider myself quite a 'socialist' and 'environmentally concerned' - and I clearly have no objection to the graphic or it's message.

I dare say many a social worker would say a similar thing to a woman asking for help in what to do with a marriage where they aren't happy... yet on a singlet those same social workers will get all huffy and puffy about such words being "racist", because they've been conditioned to do so by agitators/intellectual bullies who tell them what they are expected to believe"racist" means; so even if they have some doubt in their own minds about whether something is actually "racist" or not; they'll still perform like attack dogs when confronted with something that looks like what their handler has conditioned them to attack.

Sure; there'll be some 'bleeding heart' types in amongst the attack dogs; but on the whole the conditioning is so wide and pervasive, that there'll even be 'righties' and 'conservative' types "offended" as well.

Me? I reckon it just boils down to how poorly modern Australians are educated - especially linguistically; specifically in comprehension, and in interpretive thinking.

Too many modern Aussies are sheeple.  They follow the leader because they're too gutless to think for themselves."We should also sell a shirt that says "Love it or leave it" with a portrait of people from various race/cultures holding each other's hands."

Good call!

A variation could also have a picture of planet Earth... surrounded by the "Love it , or leave it!" exhortation."...the well healed..."

Are they the people who scrub up better after a stoush?

I'd have thought they were just heels who wore more ostentatious versions of themselves...

I do get what you're on about though!I'm not envious of "Team Rich".

What gets my goat is their envy of the money I have and their need to try and get it off me!!!

So - if there's any pointing of fingers to be made regarding "envy" - it's the fingers of those who feel the envy of those individuals who want to take everything they can from as many people as they can take from, just so they can accumulate a pile of cash/stuff, that'll prove to their own feeble minds that "they're the besterest of all", who ultimately have the right to point the finger!!

Not the "Team Rich" members who are only pointing their fingers accusingly in an attempt to deflect any admission of responsibility for any of the angst or dislike they themselves have engendered."People think equality means removing every obstacle for them."

No. 

That's what you think people who you have little respect for think.

Without presuming what people who'd prefer 'greater equality' actually "think"; I would contend that many would appreciate that the worth assigned to particular individuals more closely reflect the fact that in some way, we all depend on other people much more than we'd like to admit.

Given the modern cult of "self" and "me, me, me" in preference to "we, we, we" - the likelihood that our connection to others will ever again be appreciated as much as it was after the Second World War, is quite low.

And what is even more revealing, especially of this country in particular, is that the idea that a country with the majority of it's people being 'wealthy' (or close to the level that the wealthiest citizens enjoy), is somehow not worthy of pursuing!!"The most useful tool for any child is the one that I never see on any syllabus. it is far more important than the arts or the sciences. It ranks up there with the 3 Rs. It is logic."


It's always refreshing to see someone, while attempting to prove a point about themselves as they simultaneously attempt to make a point about someone else, actually prove the other person's point!!

I do believe that @A pocketful of wry clearly qualified the question "Can any of them play an instrument" with "(note: "the fool" is NOT an obscure medieval musical device, despite the practitioner requiring a good deal of wind and tub-thumping to turn in a quality performance)".

Clearly there was no need to prove @A pocketful of wry correct - nor to denigrate the use of something that clearly wasn't used whilst formulating your response to @A pocketful of wry.Please, please!!  

Stop these calls for the attack dogs on the arts to be called off!! 

As a former teacher of art and a practising artist, the last thing I need is even more incompetent half trained thick-heads who reckon they're "awesome" artists galavanting all over the country side as though they're owed acclaim and a living simply for existing!!!!!

Most of them hold a pencil as if it's an instrument of torture!! The vast majority think that colour is something you shouldn't talk about because it's "racist", and the thing that makes an artwork great is the A-4 sheet of bollocks stuck on the wall for the punters who haven't got a clue about art to read and be impressed by because it uses a couple of "big words"!!!

So; please... for the sake of all of us practising artists who actually value our profession - take an even bigger axe to the funding of the Arts in this country!!

Our field needs to be even more elitist - even more difficult to enter, if it is to avoid the debasing, the seeping entropy that's led to the decay of all of those centuries of effort in building towards greatness!!

Let us prevent further erosion of the standard that the great arts practitioners of this land have spent thousands of years working to achieve!

I propose, that arts education in Australia be exclusively the domain of arts practitioners. Take it out of Universities, Colleges, schools!  Anyone who wants to become an arts practitioner ought to pay to study with an arts practitioner who's prepared to take them - just like in the days of old!!  They can get their parents to pay the arts professional for all the food and lodging needed for their apprenticeship.  And no refunds either if the kid turns out to be dismal in the field!!

I want real and meaningful reform in the education of the Arts in Australia!!  C'mon Pyne!!  Have you got the guts?!!"...our political overlords can't see outside the narrow apertures of their ideological glasses."

I think you may find the narrow apertures aren't even close to the organs that need glasses; ideological or not!!!

;-)"Art is part of life, a large part of it in many ways."

Don't be bashful @stalga!!

You can say it!!!

"Life is art, as much as art is life"!!

Sure; there'll be the knuckle heads who "juss done ged id", but they'll never get anything much apart from headaches when they try to think and a pat on the back from the overlords for being true suckers and a kick up the bum from the self same overlords when the brownie points they've worked so hard and mindlessly for are lost in one fell swoop - but there will always be those who do actually "get it".

The shame for those who "get it", is that there's just so many who don't...  As a wise man once said "Them's the breaks!!!""I'd go one further : "All art is irrelevant"

I hope you live by your contention Billy Bob - although, if you do, I'm sure you'd find it a chilly experience given that 'fashion' i.e. clothes and clothing, are forms of art... and whatever you do, don't ever hum a tune lest you feel the need to thump yourself for being such a hypocrite - and whatever you do, don't ever try to do anything more with food than eat it raw, lest you find yourself accusing yourself of using any of the culinary arts...

Good luck with living a life devoid of any form of art at all: but given it is irrelevant to you, I'm sure you won't miss it.

:-)"But is this really what we want our schools to do?"

As a former teacher, I can quite honestly answer your question with this response...

"It may not be what you or I or any sane person with a well balanced sense of worth might wish for, but those who need to validate themselves by becoming 'leaders' or determiners of what others are expected to say or do, definitely prefer the young to regurgitate "known" information or facts.

This is why students are expected to quote known texts when presenting a supposedly 'original' idea!!

How in God's name can an idea be original, if you've got to quote ideas that are already out there?!!!

The cult of the mediocre has been designed by the mediocre to preserve the mediocre at a level where they can feel comfortable, rather than discomforted by those they know are actually far less mediocre...  

Humanity still hasn't come to grips with those individuals who just can't be happy being what they are; and more often than not, it's those who see themselves as less than what they are (probably rightly; but what the heck!!!) who just can't rest until they've made themselves feel better about themselves by making life crap/less enjoyable/more complicated than it ought to be for those they see/recognise/convince themselves are 'superior' (in some way or another and often erroneously!!) to themselves.

Let's not fool ourselves here... The last thing the Education system has anything to do with is Education!!!!  

It's actually about maintaining "order".  In that sense, the current incarnation is a raging success, and articles like Mr Berg's are nothing more than window dressing."These are the people that should be leading any changes to the curriculum not beaurocat nor the politicians that hold sway over them . If only."

Can you name one mine where the miners crafted company policy or determined work practices?

Those at the coal face have always been told what to do by those who've never gone anywhere near the coal face; or if they through sheer chance have, they breathe a sigh of relief when they can avoid being anywhere near it while trumpeting how they were once a coal face worker themselves, as if that gives them 'cred'...

Humanity may be evolving; but it's clear it'll never evolve past it's own mechanisms of evolution... one of which is the drive of the incompetent (or 'lesser' in whatever capacity) to stand over the competent (or more 'gifted' in whatever way) in order to make themselves feel better about themselves.

We just have to accept the constant 'battle' that our own nature presents us with, when it comes to things we wish weren't so governed by our own species foibles/strengths and weaknesses..."We are educating children not not trying to make profits."

That's what they want you to believe!!

However; ask yourself what the politicians (and Academics as well as some other numpties who reckon they're 'education "experts") ALWAYS say about "Ed-you-CASH-un"?

In pretty basic terms, I'm sure you'll concur that the usual mantra they spout is, "It's there to provide graduates who will go on to be valued employees, worthwhile members of society and contributors to the economy."

You sure as Hell don't hear them mouth a mantra of "education is provided to those who wish to find their own place and think for themselves - to innovate, to create, to go to a place where no other human mind has gone before and to find fulfillment from the obtaining of greater understanding about themselves and their role in society and life itself, as well as allowing those who just want enough information and skills to get along in life to do so".

Mind you; which 'mantra' do you reckon would yield the most votes when it comes time for the donkeys to be led by the carrot dispensers?Left brain... Right brain...  What a PAIN!!!

How's about thinking with as much grey matter as possible regardless of the side of the cranium it inhabits!!  

Maybe even use the neurons from the top and the bottom of the skull as well!

And I say this as former teacher of art in secondary and TAFE schools/colleges - and as a professional practising  'creative' myself...  "Sure, there's not enough credit given to the 'creative' disciplines within the current Australian education system, but just like a meal of all meat is not only boring, it's downright unhealthy... an education that's only creative is about as useful as a hand full of dessicated doggie dung!"

An education that doesn't educate is not an education after all!!"and the Labor party will do their usual when they finally claw their way into office and let sleeping dogs lie."

That's a bit "ruff, ruff!!" isn't it Pete?"The current system is failing the country and the children."

"The current system"?  Sheesh!!!  The system for at least the past couple of decades has been doing that!!

When it became "verbotten" to fail a student, and the "bell curve system" were introduced in order to "lift poorer performing students to a pass level, whilst dropping high achieving students down to a lower level" was when the rot set in.

Then when education became a means to keep young unemployed juveniles who could cause social problems "off the streets" - a fact barely disguised by the exhortations of politicians and 'academics' to "raise the number of HSC graduates looking for university positions while making sure the number of Yr10 leavers was reduced to as close to zero as possible"... it became necessary for 'the powers that be' to manipulate the system for even more docile graduates.

The last thing needed in a world that has far fewer opportunities for employment, is a large pool of angry youth who can think for themselves!!

Anybody with half a brain would be scared of what angry youths can do if they aren't rendered docile enough to control by finding themselves with the 'nooses' that'll stifle revolt, of job, kids to feed and a mortgage!  

Politicians of all persuasions and flavours are especially aware of what mobs of angry thinking for themselves youths could do to them in particular!!!!

What better time to craft docile drones - even young ones; than when you've got them captive in something that's so readily supported by the voting public and parents?

Let us not forget that until Napoleon, there was nothing approaching what we might call "public education".  And Napoleon created it as a 'carrot' for a populace that could have turned against him for his Imperial ambitions if it had not been made docile enough through manipulative methods such as providing "public education"!So what's ultimately more important - the sisterhood, or the political persuasion?

Sure; there's blokes who'll plead that the brotherhood is more important than any other consideration when the chips are down; but that's just what anyone who knows the poo is about to hit the fan will do in order to avoid the poo hitting the fan - and that, when all is said and done is what 'politics' is about!

When it comes to 'politics' players will even renounce their gender if they feel they have to!

And so we end up with articles like this, that demonstrate just how easily those who aren't playing the political game are sucked in by the performance/s!

Politicians (and no doubt some/maybe even most of their advisors/gravy train hangers-on) wouldn't enter the game if they didn't think themselves capable of manipulating situations or other people... and being able to be whatever is required to obtain whatever they determine is needed in order to "win"; is exactly what they will do, because if they can't, they'll get 'cut down' along with all the other "losers".

To that extent, the current batch of desperados infesting parliaments around the Nation, demonstrate just how population pressures can bring out the very worst in humanity, regardless of their political persuasion, age, faith, race, gender, qualifications, hygiene, appearance, intellect or lack there-of, speech inflections or impediments, in their desperate desire to get to the top of the heap rather than have to dwell amongst the plebs, where they'd quite happily dwell if there weren't so many of us infesting the place...So, what's the difference between women politicians?

I suppose the biggest difference is those on the conservative side of the fence are more choosey as to who they sleep with to get to the top, while those on the socialist side will tackle anyone they reckon will help get them there...

Not that different from the blokes in that case then..."Women of the right are honest enough to respond to criticism on its merits."

Clearly you've not had a failed relationship with a woman "of the right"..."the irony is some departments could do with more staff in order to watch over private industry contractors taking the piss"

Yeah rattan.... but the benefits to be got from not having any more legal obligations - because that's now the contractors bag to carry (unless you can do the Tony Abbott trick of convincing the brain dead out there that it's still the Department's/Government's/Minister's fault when it's clearly the contractor's - which even a Royal Commission will show is the case, despite the sacrificial lamb who'll be offered up to make sure the story 'goes away') far outweigh any contractor 'sticky fingers' in the lolly jar!

Besides, if you can massage enough nepotism into the whole "outsourcing" (because private is so much better than public) con-job, the contract should always go to a reputable firm run by individuals of the finest character [who might just be relatives...] who will be grateful enough for the acceptance of their tender, that a 'donation' might just end up finding it's way into the election funds of a politician who's by sheer co-incidence is a member of the same small circle of friends/family as those giving the contract/tendering for the contract!!!

Australia has always worked best when it's "looked after it's mates" mate!!!!"How much evidence do you need?"

For some people there will never be enough evidence to convince them that what they believe is in any way "in error" - even if the error is a teensie-weensie almost ludicrously miniscule one..."The public sector is grossly overmanaged. That's a pain for the taxpaying public but an even greater pain for teachers, nurses, ambos..."

I take it you do know that teachers, nurses, ambos, etc, etc, have lived with management being a pain in the date for donkeys years?!!!  

It's only the wet behind the ears newbies who are dumb enough to suck up to the senior bureaucrats by actually filling in all the paperwork!! Those with experience either know how the system works to the point where they manipulate it to lessen their load, or they just 'delegate' to some brown noser who's prepared to demean themselves in order to earn some "far easier to lose than earn" brownie-points!

If you want to know about real "top heavy" management, just check out private industry!!!

That's where real "overmanagement" is taking place mate!!

And the more the private sector reduces it's lower level work force while retaining it's managers, the worse the situation becomes!!

It's like watching monkeys scrambling about in a tree as they sort out who's getting to the top branches!!  The monkey's that see themselves as 'in charge' are kicking the monkeys they couldn't give a rat's about off the branches they covet as they scramble to get even higher themselves... and as the number of monkeys reduces and the lower branches have fewer and fewer monkeys on them, the monkeys at the top start beating the crap out of each other, because in the end; there can only be one monkey at the top!!  

One sad, worn out dopey monkey all alone in the tree they've conquered!!!  "Yay!!" for them...  Bozzo ape... and it's clear we're no better!!!!"No one ever cut their way to greatness"

Correction Ian; "no-one ever cut their way to greatness and ended up staying there"!!!

See, the problem isn't the cutting; the problem is when the cut are those who deemed themselves above cutting.

And once the cuts mean that those who never conceived of being affected themselves, are beyond even their own delusional states of mind being affected; the path from greatness to the bottom of the pit is beyond the control of those who see themselves as "great" as a consequence of the cuts they've implemented.

We're not too far off the cuts that are supposed to make our 'savings' safer - because the logic of having savings through not spending, is clear enough that even a dolt can understand it... becoming the much harder for a dolt to comprehend logic of "but if you don't spend because the cuts aimed at creating savings are have to ultimately impact somewhere, then nobody is making what is needed for savings in the first place!!"

When a nation uses de-humanising terminology for action/s or intended action/s, such as "cuts" or "rationalising" or "contracting" or any of the other plethora of terms some overvalued consultant with a thesaurus has chanced upon as the best term to fool the illiterates being pumped out by our current education system, that "it's their own best interests that are being looked after" as they're led like lamb to the slaughter into underemployment at best or the more likely unemployment, you know you're in trouble!

It's almost as if the medieval form of "cure" for illness, now makes sense on a National scale!!  At least they had the brains to call it "bleeding" back then, despite the need for 'the cuts' that'd lead to the bleeding..."It is mostly unnecessary and full of divas."

Exactly the same as online discussion forums then."...the State can define mental illness anyhow they like."

Which would seem to people who'd like to think of themselves as 'sane', like the true definition of "Nuts!!"

The "state" likes to think that it can define whatever it likes as whatever it likes!!  And there's citizens who go along with that perception!!

It's strange that the qualities that'd define someone as 'mentally ill' are forgiven when they are exhibited by political figures... or by the 'attractive/beautiful' or the "charismatic".

The lesson to be learnt from all of this is, "don't be loopy and ugly or boring or dull or 'weak', because you'll end up like the 'witch' in Monty Python's The Holy Grail - found guilty regardless and burnt at the stake!!Clearly, the whole human race is 'mentally ill' - it's just a matter of degrees, and how much damage a human individual can do as a result of their particular symptoms and severity of affliction, that is what's truly being discussed here.

So; if we recognise that certain sufferers of 'mental illness' can damage/destroy life, limb and/or property, what do we feel is the appropriate course of action as "a society" that holds the best interests of "every" citizen in mind when choosing it's responses to such issues?

I personally believe the present system has failed in it's responsibility to EVERY citizen - especially it's responsibility to those citizens who really shouldn't be hidden amongst us in 'half-way houses' or any of the other "cost cutting", "wash our hands of the issue like Pontius Pilate" measures our State governments have taken since they realised how much it was costing them to run dedicated facilities where those who were the most likely to hurt others and themselves could at least be treated with more respect than the 'inmates' I've seen being treated like dirt/effluent in local 'half-way' houses!!

The current system STINKS!!!  It feeds only the greed of the most disgusting filth on two legs, who own and run these places! 

And those who suffer the most are those who are supposedly being looked after better than ever before... 

Meanwhile, most people see the smiling faces of the owners of such places, and witness their charitable work and notice their 'charisma', so any suggestion of nasty goings on at their 'institutions' must clearly be hate inspired muck raking by people who ought not be believed!

I suppose anything that'll aid the ability to sleep at night will do - even if it is total avoidance of reality.  See!!  We are all mentally ill to some degree!!"The Prime Minister responded that there would not be a war tax. OK !"

Well of course there won't be a "war tax", because as the Prime Minister has told us, it's not actually a war, it's more of a "mission"...

So it'll be a "mission" tax.  OK!!!What better place to beat this hackneyed old drum, than the ABC's Drum?!!!

"Reform!! Reform!!!"  Yeah, yeah...  

The more I hear that same old refrain, the more bilious it makes me!!!

Unlike Tony Abbott's three word slogans, which repeated over and over gave the vacuum headed and the intellectually bereft a sense of purpose - regardless of how simplistic that purpose, or how damaging the simple execution of the simplistic purpose may ultimately be... this whole "Reform, reform!!" stuck-in-the-groove so monotonously that it's lost any real meaning call that goes out every time the ALP feels the need to regain some 'relevancy' (when it in fact has never lost it's relevancy), strikes me as nothing more than the usual sort of "going through the motions to make it look like somethings being done when we in fact know all along nothing is ever going to get done" grandstanding that's designed to fool only the fools.

Here's something from a person who'd dearly love the ALP to become a worthy alternative to the simpletons running the show at the moment...  How's about you lot stop apologising for being the party of "the working man" - even if that 'working man' is a Union member!!!

Hows about you ALP lot stand up to the captains of industry for once, rather than kowtowing as readily as the LNP does!!  Hows about you ALP lot rediscover the very reason for your existence in the first place; rather than chasing your tails (let alone licking the butts of the partry you're supposed to be opposed to!!!) in an effort to look "relevant" in the so-called "Modern World"; as if the World has somehow changed so much that people and what they aspire to are now so different from what they were only 50 yrs ago!!!

I suspect that the ALP as it stands needs much more than "reform"!!

It needs a total rebuild, only with the bricks and mortar from it's Genesis in the late 1800's, rather than trying to graft the kind of lame-brained half baked facade of 'modernity' onto it that's the object of every "reform" agitator who clearly would prefer to manipulate the party for their own ends, rather than mould themselves to be worthy members of a party that already knew where it's heart and soul lay."...dare i say "reform".

But Rob, the way the English language has been deconstructed and twisted and urinated upon by those who reckon they're clever manipulators of other people and ideas and words, means that a word like "reform" no longer means to "build again", as in "start from scratch with all new building blocks"...  

The debasers of the English language have altered the connotation of the action that underlies the word "reform" to subtly reflect their new version of it's meaning - namely, that "reform" is just a reshuffling of the existing elements in as minimalistic a way as possible, whilst contending major 'restructuring' has occurred.

If only the word "reform" DID actually ONLY mean "total and complete deconstruction of the existing edifice, prior to the construction of something totally new using ideas, items, materials that hadn't been used in the item that was deconstructed", I could wholeheartedly agree with tentatively proffering the word "reform" as the appropriate course of action that ought to be taken by the current ALP...Ever noticed that the biggest "leaners" of the lot, are the one's sitting on the finest leather benches in some of the most expensive buildings ever built in this country, producing nothing more than hot air powered rhetoric?!!!

Politicians!!  By very definition, politicians are 'leaners', yet they have so brainwashed the plebiscite, that they can barefacedly address the rest of the people as 'leaners' if they don't provide what they expect them to provide!!

And what is it that politicians expect the "lifters" to provide eh?  Certainly not what their smokescreen words contend!! 

Any benefit to come from the efforts of the 'lifters' will go straight to the 'leaners' in our various parliaments; in exactly the same way the fruits of the labours of all the hardest workers have always gone into the coffers of those who deem themselves more worthy because they are our leaders.

Each generation must face the continuing struggle that is the battle between those who feel entitled to treat their fellows as nothing more than a means to achieve their own ends, and the need to co-operate in a way that benefits as many as possible.

The difficulty is knowing when those 'in charge' (or wanting to gain control) are being duplicitous with the language and terminology they use in their efforts to manipulate.  

Knowing how much trust to give to those who clearly wish to manipulate us in order to gain power is always going to be a difficult and never ending conundrum for each successive generation of humanity.

Me? I have never trusted anyone who leans, while they tell everyone else to be lifters..."...people who go into parliament should do so out of civic duty..."

I'm beyond certain that our political figures do wholeheartedly convince themselves that their entry into politics IS prompted by their deep sense of "civic duty"...

It's just that when it comes to certain types of people, they are able to convince themselves of almost anything!!!  They - for instance; are able to convince themselves that receiving inducements ISN'T taking a bribe, when it's them receiving the inducement; when they clearly see the receiving of inducements as "taking bribes" when it's an opponent or someone on their (supposed) own team who they hate even more for standing in the path of their rise to the top.

Megalomania is exhibited in many, many ways!!  So many in fact, that the voting public is easily confused.

Sadly; the fact that the best leaders don't hunger for the position of leader, means we're instead left to choose from the pile of incompetent numpties who wave their arms about and leap and shout "Choose me!! Choose me!! I"m the best!!" like those primary school kids who reckoned they were the ant's pants and assigned themselves the position of "captain" when it came time to play footy or whatever on the playground.

The real mind-bender, was all the kids who'd go out of their way to impress the little snots who'd set themselves up as 'captains' just so they might get "picked on their team"!!  

The whole scene just went to show how desperate some people can be to be leaders (more often than not to make up for what they know is their own failings of character), or loyal followers...

Then they grow up and get the vote!  The scene just moves from the playground to the national stage and the ballot box.

It's no wonder our pollies still believe the same delusion they had as kindie and primary school kids that everything they do is for everyone else's benefit rather than their own; even if their remuneration from out of the public purse, is beyond reprehensible according to every standard of decent morality!!"...our workers on a world scale, check OECD stats - are too greedy."

Ah yes Gregory...  Thanks for tossing out that old pile of bile!

You know; the oft chanted mantra of those who'd much rather have a bigger piece of the pie than the piece that the chef, or the farmer or any of the other contributors to the making of the pie are entitled to, where "we" determine that rather than be proud of a workforce that earns more than the rest of the World - a World that still hangs onto certain Medieval notions, such as serfdom and even slavery; "we" ought to spit upon the efforts of our very own people and justify the spitting by pointing to the other side of the fence as though it's more worthy than here!!!

National pride ought to extend to the pride one has in seeing one's national fellows enjoying the wealth we have in common; rather than pride in how those on the top of the pyramid of power can urinate on those who've built the pyramid for them!!

Rather than look for the greedy elsewhere, take a look in the mirror first..."Don't make it an issue of gays and lesbians, because it isn't, it is universal, and only a fundamental shake up of society will change it."

True... but don't hold your breathe on there being a "shake up" anytime soon!!

And that's because from what I have seen of this issue throughout my life to date, it's "fear" that is always the spark/the catalyst, for the (so-called) 'descent'. However, given we're born with pretty well all of our fears, the descent is always there.

And given even so-called "mentally healthy" people have fears/phobias, there's about as much likelihood of humanity - let alone our own little Aussie component of it; ever facing up to the reality of what their own fears compel them to behave like, as there is of Tony Abbott becoming an atheist!

Crikey!!  If only those people who loudly profess how they are "perfectly healthy" when it comes to their mental state, could accept their own real fear of NOT being healthy mentally, they might be able to treat their parents who suffer from dementia one hell of a lot better than the way I see parents and grandparents with dementia being treated by their supposedly mentally "well balanced" offspring!!!  

So much 'embarrassment' and even 'disgust' at what those who gave them life and love say now that the ravages of age take hold...  

Some parents are even abandoned by their children because the kids are more afraid of what others think; or because of how they reckon they'll be viewed as the kind of people who associate with the sort of people they're embarrassed to be seen with!!

The truth of evolution, is that life is a problem looking for a solution, despite the knowledge that the solution to the problem will not be determined until the solution for it has been found!! 

So; until we know the solution to the problem that evolution is the mechanism of achieving, there isn't anyone who can claim to be "the pinnacle of evolution"; or "perfect"...  If anything, claiming to be 'perfect' in any way shape or form, whether it be sexually or mentally or healthily is just 100% pure Narcissism; which is by definition "unhealthy"!!!"Foreign fighter laws will make Australia safer"...

Nah!!   A populace with some moral backbone and the 'balls' to stand up for itself, is ALWAYS the best defence against ANY threat it may face.

Sadly, the current Australian population is filled to the brim with loud mouthed chest beating snivelling wooses, who'd much rather hand over their protection to a bunch of 'not to be trusteds', because doing that will make their vacuum filled craniums hurt a lot less.

Anyone who believes "laws" will do anything more than affect those who follow the law, needs to have their head read!  

The whole point is, that deliberate "law breakers" (like terrorists!!) won't give two tosses about what laws a country like Australia puts in place - except perhaps to have a good giggle over before they spit on them; so any talk about "laws making us safer" is more than just mere conjecture, it's downright FANTASY!!!!"Can we really afford to go to war?"

Clearly, that's the wrong question.

The more relevant question is "can Mr Abbott afford NOT to go to war?"  And, it's quite clear what the answer to that question is!!!

And if the level of education demonstrated in the responses on the Drum's forums is any guide, any funding Mr Abbott requires for his foreign foray/s could be obtained from an education system that is either incapable of doing as it is tasked - i.e. educating those who are capable of being educated; or, is facing the impossible task of educating the uneducatable!!  I prefer to believe it's the former, even though my experiences in dealing with the modern Aussie population at large lead me to sense that it's the latter...

Any pragmatist worth their salt would contend that spending money on anything that's clearly such an abject failure is stupidity on a grand scale!  And given the LNP's policy stance on Universities/Higher Education is "market driven"; there should be little philosophical objection to making ALL education equally open to "competition" or dying off completely if there isn't a market for it!

With my clear understanding of how the reasoning skills of today's Australians is so poor; it comes as no surprise, that I see Mr Abbott's exercise in the use of foreign conflict to divert attention from local issues (and his Government's political/policy failures!) as having every chance of success; and the weak willed acquiescence by the vast majority of feeble minded two-legged sheep should mean funding such enterprises - even at the cost of other 'closer to home' enterprises like properly educating Australians in the art of reasoning/thinking; ought to present him with (at worst) token resistance.

After all, what's the point of being 'educated' and able to think for yourself, if you are so scared about your own safety that you wet your pants in fear at a bunch of mental defectives who'd be mental defectives regardless of what loony-tunes doctrine they've invented for themselves to currently create havoc too?!  

Far better to spend the money that would have gone on a useless education, on some nice new F-35 Kimbies that'll at least give the impression of 'security'...  Clearly you don't have to be smart, when you've got 'smart' weapons!!!"It is well documented that the GFC was largely caused by corporate greed."

You mean the same greed that underpinned all those U.S. corporations that sought and got plump contracts to go into Iraq and 'fix the place up'? 

Or perhaps the greed that underpins all these 'financial crisis' type events in an overpopulated world IS different greed from the greed that appears when there's different honey to be scraped from the pot!!

Hmmm... I have the feeling that greed is greed, regardless of what the motivation for it is.

And I also have the feeling that the result/s of greed are similarly predictable regardless of how much the human mind may feel inclined to try and excuse the greed of those they may feel some empathy for, when they ought not...

To be honest - who cares whether the GFC was or was not caused by or influenced by or not influenced by the war in Iraq, or even some numptie butterflies wings beating in the Amazon forest?!

It shouldn't take too much neuronal effort to see that greed is what's ended up with the World back in the usual mess that greed has put it in since the dawn of time!!!"Who cares? The people who lost their life savings through no fault of their own. Small businesses that went bust due to sudden recession. People who lost their jobs. The poorest people who became poorer."

And that'd be me in amongst that lot mate!

Just because I don't go about the joint screaming and shouting, or wringing my hands in despair or looking for some inane 'reason' for what happened when I lost nearly 50% of my investments or my job as a consequence of 'rationalisation', when the reason it happened is pretty obvious - i.e. human greed, doesn't mean I 'care' any the less.

Of course there's a difference in how one deals with the ups and downs life and one's fellow humans toss at one... which brings us back to the topic of the article; namely, can we afford to take the single overtly punitive course of action that the present Government is taking in dealing with "baddies".

"Answer of course is: There are no oilfields there."

Another answer is: Because the U.S. already has enough Afro's, and despite it's fanfaring of how it's the home of the Free, the Land of the Brave; they only actually say that, rather than live it... it's much more subversively prudent to let those Africans who might get it in their minds to head to the U.S. as a place of haven if the U.S. actually took a stand on their behalf, to cop a bit of ethnic cleansing/genocide.

Besides, it doesn't look good to be the U.S. and promote population reductions...  just stay quiet and let the population reductions take place in the places where a country like the U.S. knows it's probably best they take place."right woman, wrong time"

I recall a "drumming up support" visit by Julie Bishop when she was in opposition, to a local township...  

She clearly wanted one of those "pictures kissing the kids" photographs that politicians of all flavours seem so enamoured of.

Sadly for her, the instant any of the kids that the photographers tried to involve in the shoot saw Julie; they burst into fear prompted, tear filled, screaming, writhing "get me outta here" fits that were guaranteed to make sure they wouldn't be co-opted!!

Strange that the infants at that failed photo shoot knew something about Julie that it's quite clear adults - for whatever reason; seem prepared to suppress...  And they knew what they knew about Julie despite all the smiles and supposedly calming baby talk she directed at them.

Who'd a thunk that babies have better character assessment than adults?!!!!   

No doubt though, that those infants will grow up to be just as gullible as their parents and the rest of the Aussie plebiscite currently is!!!"Please remember: 85% smokers, 84% non-smokers die from 'tobacco related disease'."

And don't forget that leaves 15% of smokers/16% of non-smokers who either die or get killed by non-smoking related diseases/causes!

I've often wondered how many respiratory 'diseases'/'defects'/'anomalies' can be blamed on smoking because it's an easier target than say - for instance; the breathable pollutants and carcinogens being pumped into the atmosphere on a far more insane level by industry or modern modes of transport, which by definition are far more important to protect in the modern scheme of existence,  than something like smoking, which has been around for far longer than the modern industries and modern modes of transport that toss out insanely more respiratory system affecting particulates/gases/chemicals than smoking ever could?

So; while I have no real problem with the attempts to reduce or eliminate smoking - I sure do when there's so little to nothing being done to reduce or totally eliminate the micro particles of rubber given off by tyres, or the carbon particulates or the carcinogens pumped from factory chimneys or the innumerable other irritants of breathing passages that are 24/7 released by the ton load that fill our breathable modern city's air with the sort of glibness that we look back on our ancestors as having when we think of them as dolts - yet we can snarl in anger at those who appear to 'defend' smoking.To state the most obvious - "Shorten must go".

It's not only the sort of three (low syllable count) word slogan that a conservative supporter can understand; it succinctly summates the action the ALP MUST take if it is to have any hope of regaining Government in this country before Tony Abbott gets to pass a law entrenching his leadership indefinitely and without the need for re-election or plebiscite of any kind, as being necessary for the "fight on terror".

Bill is quite simply one of the most tepid individuals I have ever witnessed in politics!  

If he were put into any other field of employment, I'm beyond certain that he'd be "Mr Not Only Invisible But Also Mr Who Even Cares If He Was Visible"!  

That the ALP is prepared to so readily follow someone who clearly recognised their own deficiencies, that they HAD to enter politics and HAD to rise through the ranks as a means of assuaging their own recognition of how incapable they were at any other real form of employ, is nigh on near beyond scary, because it's an indication of just how low in the barrel the current scrapings are being taken from when it comes to our political 'talent'!!!!!!!!

Please note - rather than just buttering up or brown nosing, like so many seem to do or prefer others to do these days; I've decided to "call a spade a spade" with my above comments. 

One would hope it's the sort of example of the sort of honesty that those who may prefer an ALP - whether it be in 'opposition' or in Government; to be so they would have a much more viable alternative to party of the conservatives and right wing of the political spectrum that is presently pretending that it is the only "honest" alternative."Please someone start a genuine environmental based party in this country."

Well, here's your chance!

What's that?

You'd much rather do the current Aussie thing and just whinge about it until someone else summons the guts and gumption to do it; at which time you'll condescend to either support or spit on them...


"Please ABC start being honest and unbiased for a change."

Maybe if those Aussies who pass judgement on the ABC's ability to be honest and unbiased lived a according to the admonition of Christ - namely; "let he who is without sin, cast the first stone", a comment like yours might hold some water."why the need for each one to administrate their own?"

Clearly - after making a statement like that; you've never, ever had to administer anything!!

Remote administration - i.e. 'Non-local' administration has zero concept of local issues, let alone the flexibility to take into account the sorts of 'change' that can occur in one place and not necessarily another.

The fact that the Federal Government has plenty enough control/say over exactly what it needs to have control over in regards to education/health under the present Australian Constitutional provisions of the divisions of power ought to satisfy every thinking Australian.  

That it doesn't clearly satisfy all Australians is just evidence of how many are thinking Australians.

The role of the Federal Government as regards health and education, is to provide a bar/a proposed standard that the practitioners of every state can aspire to achieve as part of their professional duties; regardless of the preferred local/State prescribed means of achieving those National goals.

Why is something so simple so hard for some people to grasp?  

It must have something to do with the poor/misguided educational standards being set by subsequent Federal Governments who want to get even more control of the State Government's education systems, despite their own failings in providing something worthy enough of the local/State systems aspiring to!!!!!"why is the Abbott Government now introducing the new offence of "advocating terrorism"...

Well Chris; it's clear that a law designed to target those who "recruit terrorists" is not going to be the same as one that actively targets "advocating terrorism"!!!!

In the simple logic of "the law" 'recruiting' and 'advocating' are two different and unconnected things.  You need a law for each.

Now of course, anybody who thinks at a level above that of a Kindie kiddie, can extrapolate the 'reach'/'extension' of such a law in it's implementation - especially upon Australian citizens who may not necessarily be members of the "un-named" faith that the superficial targets of such a specific law will no doubt be generally expected to adhere to!!

But the legal profession works only upon the simplistic interpretation of the Kindie level intellect, in much the same way that the politicians do when it comes to "selling" such legislative alterations to the voting public. 

Hence the law will only be used to target the "baddies" it's been drawn up to punish so that the rest of us who don't follow the faith the baddies clearly follow, because even though we can't say it, we all know the faith the baddies follow don't we? - will be clearly safe!!

Of course, if any Aussie citizen ever calls for their fellow Aussies to take any action that the sitting Government determines to be "terrorist" in nature - you know; they decide that marches in the street are "terrorist in nature",  because they've heard via some rumours that a couple of people were scared "for their lives" by all those people marching along a street protesting, they could get the coppers to arrest heaps of Aussies who are followers of the "baddies" faith.

If it was just the "recruiting terrorists" legislation, they'd have a bit more trouble justifying labelling a street march as "recruitment" of "terrorists".

See; it's simple really!!  So many Aussies labour under the delusion that the legal system is 'complicated' when they're the one's who see too much in it!"Heard the ABC news yesterday tell of a guy, 42, wielding a knife held police at bay for some time in a Brisbane suburb."

You forgot to mention how that particular event ended...  

Let's just say that despite the large number of heavily armed police wearing protective armour who had set themselves up at over three metres away from the guy who was seated in a car, they still managed to avoid shooting the fellow in his arms or legs to incapacitate him once the guy got out of the car.  

The video footage I saw shows at least three heavily armed officers letting rip as soon as the guy got out of the car. He didn't stand a chance!

I guess that's one way to bring a family dispute to a conclusion!

I bet it won't end family disputes however...  Strange how some people can see some guy gunned down as the end result of a 'siege' that's come about as part of a 'family dispute', and they still end up being involved in family disputes and 'sieges' of their won. 

Still; punitive measures are the best aren't they...
