With a couple of exceptions the response to this article is just the same old heartless and lying argument.  The drowning figures have been magically increased by 50% and those hundreds who drowned under Howard's government have disappeared.  The crux of the article is ignored.  The good people aren't bothering to debate this same mob who support the criminal Morrison policy because they are tired of this mob of rusted on haters.The mandatory detention commenced by Labor 2 decades ago was in response to the fact that asylum seeker numbers were beyond a handful and detention was for health checks and so forth.  Under Howard mandatory detention was dehumanised and turned into concentration camps with the inmates sewing their lips together and going mad.  Labor didn't implement that kind of detention.

Having said that,  I am not like Liberal supporters who blindly support anything their party chooses to do.  I never supported Nauru or Manus' reopening and I openly said on this Drum that Rudd's last minute announcement prior to 2013 election was horrid.Official immigration policy/policies never took into account what is happening in the world over the last couple of decades.  Did you not  read how asylum seekers (boat people) were dealt with post Vietnam - different story altogether.  I find all this concern for loss of life (from Liberal or Labor) more a cover for racism than anything else.  Not the right kind of refugee!  Where is the concern for their loss of life or persecution or safety in Afghanistan or Iraq or Sri Lanka etc?  How lucky we are to have been born in Australia.Too simplistic Sea Monster.  You may but I don't make a cost benefit decision on everything everyday.  I'm pre-wired to do the right thing.Still not relevant.  We must limit our emissions, not completely eliminate them.  Intelligent debate centres on the biggest polluters which can be reduced by alternative energy.  I keep all appliances and computers etc for as long as possible.  22 years before my washing machine totally carked it and I had to buy a new one and same story with fridge and motor car, 15 years with the TV which fortunately coincided with change over to digital.  Current computer is 3 years old - previous one died aged 11, mobile phone still going strong.  On asylum seekers who try to arrive by boat - they should never be sent to Nauru or Manus.  We let in 180,000 (used to be more) regular migrants and as I've said many times, reduce that number and bring in more refugees.  No insult meant or intended SM - you're imagining things.  Trust you are well and thriving.Harry doesn't seem to agree with you if you read his post below.
As for me - no.You are not alone Lehan.Not that rot again.  He does not volunteer at all - he gets paid as well as charging expenses for accommodation and travel.  His visits to remote Aboriginal communities are usually a one night stand.  Check your facts and don't repeat BS.  He promised to spend his first week as PM with an Aboriginal community and then he didn't.You could add Mathematics and English Comprehension to that.I don't think Abbott has a shred of diplomacy in his body.  He's had four to five days to memorise a few sentences which come close to fluency.  Please get an honest pseud because Bill 'wiv' Shorten is just stupid.  The day Abbott can match Shorten and Plibersek in spoken English has not arrived (and never will).  Abbott and Bishop both poured scorn on Labor regarding the UN seat at the Security Council claiming especially that it was a waste of money and a vain pursuit.  Ha.They did not support it and they never said they said.  They scorned the whole notion and reckoned Rudd was just wanting to big note himself and a lot of other blah blah blah.   Give me a quote or a reference to where they said they fully supported this.  You can't.Not a hope in hell.  Great diversion from his numerous acts and words of idiocy.  One vague moment of sounding serious and concerned just does not make a statesman.  Not in a fit.None.  For him it's a welcome distraction from their budget from hell.I understood it was Julie Bishop's call to her 'counterparts' which were refused.It was - seems Abbott is not on his own playing funny buggers.I believe it was the American military who built it.  It never came about because of any private enterprise.  As always they came to it after the event.Communications has always been critical - ALWAYS.Abbott and Turnbull have stuffed it and the costs blowing out now are all of their own doing.  I don't think the NBN Co ever thought they didn't need access to Telstra stuff - they just didn't think it would take so long to seal the deal.  Howard flogging Telstra off caused the problem.  The nongs in charge right now couldn't be more hopeless if they tried - no, hang on, they probably could.  It gets worse day by day on every front.If you have to ask that question yet again there is no informing you Alfie.  Pyne wants all school kids to do the Naplan test on line in order to get the results quicker.  It is impossible as schools don't have sufficient internet capacity - they will with the NBN.  The copper network is fading and replacing it with fibre is brilliant.  Now, tell me why Abbott &amp; Co are continuing with this 'wasteful farce' Alfie.So true and there was a program on the TV (ABC or SBS, I forget) about the very same.  Reds under the beds and commies everywhere apparently - even David Stratton was under surveillance because he was against censorship of film and books and therefore very suspicious.Well the rusted on Abbott/Brandis can do no wrong etc will clearly agree with anything and everything.  I'm sure if Abbott/Brandis said all suspects must be stripped searched on the spot, in public, they'd find this perfectly reasonable!Well maybe Abbott and Brandis can reimburse them the cost of retaining this data for a long time and not have the IPS bear the cost and no doubt pass it on to the customers.  And I thought all the righties were against the nanny state!  Also, Doc, there is a correlation being retaining this data and phone tapping.Reading through the bulk of the comments here it is clear that the Abbott lovers have and never will progress in their relatively hateful, deceitful and convoluted reasoning in all these matters.  One must remember that it is impossible to argue with liars.Yes indeed Alpo.  There are three or four of the tireless rusted on Abbott supporters who think the other 40 odd comments here are wrong.  Everyone has said the correct and obvious thing.  Not only is the Budget a list of broken promises and very nasty surprises,  contained within it are more nasty and sneaky 'ideas' yet to be exposed.  They are all, to the general public, part of a hidden agenda.  If they knew the full story the polling would be diabolical for Abbott &amp; Co.And have they all done some critical analysis of Hockey's bastard Budget?   Actually I do my own analysis as I'm rather good at that - digging into the details.  However, your inability to recognise any broken promises or lies from Abbott &amp; Co proves your very biased pro Abbott/Hockey anything.  Takes true love to do that !I certainly am biased against Abbott, Abbott anything in fact.  But I am very well informed.  Unlike your rusted on mob I don't rely on that idiotic Liberal manual of mantras and lies.  You're all so lacking in words to describe things I've noticed you're pinching words I was the first to use on the Drum, e.g. regurgitated.  But truly 'group think' is what describes the Abbott lovers.The report is dressed up garbage and uses no words which any proper investigator would use - all straight off the Liberal song book.SVJ wants to know what I am talking about.  Well, do like I did and read the full budget papers.  If you know how to do analysis and see where figures are moved and to where and for what you get an interesting picture.  You'll have to actually spend time informing yourself.  I've been hoping the MSM would get off their arses and do proper journalism.   Desist with bandying about the word 'frenzy' - it's a tag more appropriate to those rusted on Abbott-can-do-no-wrong fan club.  I'm cool, calm and collected!Like your name Morticia, you are dead wrong.  On everything you say.  Singing the Liberal slogans is just so yesterday by the way.Sorry Richard, my post below should not have included you.  I misread your words.muzzg and Richard - criminal?  really?  Don't like the truth so you have to resort, as always, to totally nonsensical statements.Fix the budget has two meanings.  It's fixed alright - as in a fit up and revenge for the poor being poor, the sick being sick and for Labor to have ever had the nerve to implement Medicare.  Saying something is unsustainable doesn't necessarily make it so.  Now, from the mob who cry 'mess' and 'debt and deficit disaster' - Speaking to New Zealand political current affairs show The Nation on Saturday, here's what Hockey said:

"The Australian economy is not in trouble....

"There's no crisis at all in the Australian economy."

Well put Michael M.  Good word use - after my own heart.But Dez they don't have another leader.  They're all infected with the same virus !  The only fix is an election which means most likely we are stuck with this for another two years because the bully bastard will hang on just like Howard did.Well that will be news for Chris Berg.  His IPA body is the foundation of the Liberal Party.  They advise the Liberal Party and the fact that you don't know that is extraordinary.  Abbott is in trouble if the IPA says so.All being well they should be able to vote at the next scheduled election.  Good news Marion.Only the wealthy can get those 'amazing tax concessions' and they only came into existence courtesy of Howard.  Before that there was nothing.  Without you Red, there would be more properties to buy.  Works both ways.  Regardless of your attempt to justify negative gearing it is still as rort which does not do the good you think.This is about housing affordability WS.  Concentrate a bit for once.Blindly supporting Abbott's doomed PPL puts you in a very small minority Happy.  Most of his own party don't support it, business  does not support it, Labor does not support it and the Greens have cooled their dumb support.   It's a goner Happy.A lot of the private sector regards the Public Sector as the honey pot.  Howard sold a lot of it off so the private mob could have a cast iron business with no risk and then rake off profits.  Abbott's  continuing this.  Outsourcing government work to the private sector as well.  It stinks.  Private sector thrive on government contracts.  It all goes around.Happy may I suggest you put your spare time and computer skills to lobby for more child care.  The biggest difficulty women face on returning to work is not the amount of money they got for the first six months of their baby's life but the availability of child care for the following 4.5 years.Only for 6 months WS and you can do that just as well with the current PPL or with nothing (unless you are a single parent).  In fact that is exactly what the bulk of the population has always done.Ah, it's just competitiveness among private enterprise mobs.  However, I don't believe any forklift driver gets $100,000 pa - you made that up.  Still one might get danger money for moving around toxic chemical waste.  I chap in my area was killed two weeks ago moving something very dangerous which tipped off, killed him and set fire to him.Highly paid forklift drivers moving shipping containers I can understand.  I think they are not your average forklift or what most people envisage when thinking of forklifts.  Same as in a confectionary business?  I doubt it.I  still think it is rubbish.  I do look at the jobs vacant you know.  Give me the name of the confectionary company and I'll phone them to check it out.  Forklift driving does require skill by the way.We already have a one size fits all PPL.  That is how it should be.  Government does not give anyone a benefit based on your income.It's a condition of employment, not a welfare benefit.  You can keep clutching to that but it doesn't and never will wash.Clearly you and Waterloo will say anything and never heed the reality.  This Abbott PPL is doomed and he's pretty well binned it - it has no support, it does not compute!

Waterloo why on earth would you make such assumptions about me?  You are wrong everytime.  I rely on public funds no more than the rest of the entire population for roads, health, police etc and I am a self funded retiree now.Because it is totally inequitable.  Because it would be paid for by taxpayers because the Abbott govt gave a company tax reduction first.  Because we already have a one size fits all PPL.  Because child care availability is far more important.Very well put Snake.  My thoughts to a word.  I just think to myself what type of person can proudly say those words and put them up here and feel as if they have won, something, what?  Ben (not) the Lawyer is the only one coming out with this disgusting take.  I don't think the majority of Lib voters voted for this but if they did - well very very awful and sad.I share your view mercutio.  They are already having a go at your last prophecy - they keep telling Labor to 'get out of the way' (in a nasty voice).  Of course, when in opposition the Coalition had another mantra - their 'job was to oppose'.Zing, the policy of making people live on nothing for 6 months, work for 25 hours a week for nothing and apply for 40 jobs a month appears a bit over the top to me and many others.  It is totally unrealistic apart from being extremely punitive.  It is in fact disgusting and not even Howard stooped so low.jimbob - when was that?  When you were 16 years old and taxed at the lowest rate.  Income tax scales haven't, at least not in the last 60 years been or averaged 10%.  Those who managed to only pay 10% of their income in tax were all tax avoiders and most likely the wealthy who hate paying their share.The Liberals outsourced nearly all policy to their Institute of Public Affairs - supposedly independent!  The rest goes to the independent Business Council, the Mining Council and a couple of other one man 'institutes' (Donnelly, Henderson et al).Stop putting them on short term contracts.  Howard started that rot with the sacking of permanent heads of departments.  Abbott has returned to it with a vengeance and so we have none who will tell the Minister 'No'.  It's no way to run the country.As usual WS missed the point of the article completely.  The budget is indeed imbalanced, but not as you think WS!APM you are the complete stereotype of anti-ABC writers/commenters.  You make up stories and tell lies.  I think the only thing ABC you watch/read is this online Drum.  As you would know I am a lefty and avid ABC watcher/reader.  The ABC reports the news and provides opinion space and time like no other media.  If IPA right wing writing is insufficient for you at the moment I can tell you it is because many of them got cushy Liberal government appointed jobs to further the right wing agenda.  They're infesting everything.  Chris Berg is still soley IPA and right now he is sprouting forth on a rural ABC radio show doing his darndest to help ol' Barnaby Joyce's agenda and he was on the tele the other night.  Maybe there aren't just enough fascist spruikers around to tip the balance any further to make you happy but Q &amp; A and Insiders are tilting so much to the Right with their guests there is barely enough room for a lefty on the couch.You're not making much sense APM.  The Right think everything and anything which doesn't support Abbott &amp; Co is all Left when it is just probably smack bang in the middle.  I don't think everything which doesn't support Labor is automatically Right.  Therein is the difference.

I'll tell you what bias is - appointing Tim Wilson as a Commissioner on our Human Rights - a man who has no qualification whatsoever for a job in an organisation which he actually wanted abolished.  Appointing completely unqualified rusted on Lib supporters to do a Commission of Audit with no statistics or facts to back up their recommendations.  The same goes for Mr Donnelly, a mediocre teacher who wants more money for private 'christian' schools and who has worked in schools for decades - appointed to review a curriculum.  There's more but I'm sure you ignore this and go off on another tangent.Correction - Donnelly HAS NOT worked in .....
And another point for APM to ponder - the Right are so paranoid that even an article by Alan Kohler (it wasn't wholly supportive of a Liberal policy) had him labeled a lefty and a Labor supporter.  Any article containing detailed statistical analysis showing the truth regarding various social or economic matters is labeled Left and biased by your fellow travelers here on the Drum.  An article on anecdotes not being proper analysis is immediately proven wrong with more anecdotes!  Go figure that !For everything political or rural or science, you name it.  However, if anything the ABC gives too much space to Liberal garbage.  I just tolerate that.I agree.  But the Libs don't (and won't) do homework.  They don't do science, they don't do research - on anything.Just praise for leading the resolution at the Security Council Roger.  At the seat on the Security Council which Ms Bishop and all her colleagues rubbished and said was a waste of money and just Rudd grandstanding on pursuing the matter.  Enough said about that I think. Now, care to comment on the actual article to hand?Not me - the bodies will be returned to Australia and would have regardless of who was the PM.Your 'efficient leadership' is full of lies and more lies.  That debt and deficit disaster slogan is now proven codswallop with this -  Speaking to New Zealand political current affairs show The Nation on Saturday, here's what Hockey said:

"The Australian economy is not in trouble....

"There's no crisis at all in the Australian economy."

WS - there is a lengthy article in the SMH by Ross Gittins  (Monday 28th July) which sets out what to do and happens to say exactly what I would do and what Labor would have done at least in part.  Hockey's budget is not just disgusting and unfair, it is completely stupid.Maybe WS you could tell me how you think you and your beloved Liberals plan to increase revenue and exports?  So far they are increasing spending, decreasing taxes (mining, pollution, company tax) and now antagonising the Russians who are one of our export markets.  Have you thought to read the detailed Budget papers?  I know, no you haven't because being informed is just too hard for you lot.South of Saturn did you not detect that Harvey was being satirical?It was indeed 'too close' and that was his point.  Others fell hook line and sinker!The comments here would make a brilliant script for a new comedy series.Harry !!  the new rules demand 40 job applications a month.  What the heck is the matter with you?One day in the not too distant future researchers from here and afar will come to these opinion pages and read what people wrote and commented over the last few years.  They will shake their heads in horror and amazement.  Thankfully they won't find any hateful rants about asylum seekers or refugees or 'queue jumpers' from me.I noticed those BHP production figures and also the declining price.  Thank you Ian for this overview of the situation.  I think we have too many mines and I agree that some are likely to come a cropper.Yes barsnax and there are still twits here blithering on about profits staying here because there are shareholders who are Australian too.  They really know bugger all and they support them with dumb words just because Abbott says so.  i despair.The only reason is that 'they are allowed to'.  Local investment is not the point if you note that what they often do is buy an existing company - BHP is no longer Australian.  So many of our manufacturers and businesses have been bought, not established.  The foreign mining companies companies coming in just gobble up the easy pickings.  Too many locals just sell out because they like the money.  It's like the stupid greed of governments flogging off our utilities and other assets for short term gain but long term loss.There is little if any scope for more dams.Just because there is a river it does not follow there can be a dam or a sizable dam.  Brisbane River goes through heavily populated area,
Mary River doubtful,  Mitchell goes into a lake already and there is no valley that I can see.  You'd better discuss this with a dam builder or two and come back with an assessment.Mick -  who will introduce it ? - any responsible Australian government, that's who - and one not in the pockets of mining companies.  Some pay tax and some don't pay much at all.  It is a fact that they pay peanuts.  Why on earth you say what you do is beyond me.  Are you an Australian?
As to the rest of your post - it is you who have no idea Mick.  More and more people (including businesses) are coming to the realisation that this Abbott/Hockey mob are utterly hopeless.  Only Murdoch is grinning.Joseph you and your likeminded pals should look up the meaning of words before you throw around 'socialist formula'.   To date only the Nationals come close to the definition.The smart money was doing just that - nearly $3Billion in 2013.  It's shrunk this year to a mere $40 million.Solar and wind gbe (but you did know that surely).  Ever heard of not having all your eggs in the one basket?  Developing and exporting technology?  The long term plan - how many more hundreds of acres of quality farming land should we lose to coal mines?Solar base load is now available.  We've already exported half our technology on this because the local sods were too lousy to take it up.  We can have coal and renewables in tangent but one day one will run out.  Planning will get you everything.It is six (6) per cent of the economy Joseph B.  You're getting carried away!  Big time !Actually they aren't winding back.  Construction phase cannot go on indefinitely you know - got to dig it out and get the dosh flowing.  Or are you just being your usual silly billy self?  This is the stage when the states and the feds get some of the dosh too.  I never wanted a GST so the last thing I would want is for it to increase.  How about you stop deciding what other people think because you are always wrong.They paid bugger all tax and they fiddled the books.  Sweet for them, disastrous for the country.  You can't lie or gloss this one over harry - the full details were in the MSM for all to see.The whole story was in the SMH a week or two ago.  Look it up.  Next you will deny the grass is green, the sky is blue.  No, says harry.They legally fiddled the books everyone.  It is a disgrace and the laws most certainly need to be fixed.  I think Abbott actually muttered something about it with his talk to some international group, like the G20.One day the Abbott loving, mining companies pay too much tax and foreign ownership is perfect Right wing commenters here on The Drum will actually know what they are talking about.  When 'hell freezers over' I'm betting.I have always seen Tony Abbott as the biggest hater of all time.  He's taking the moderate hating Howard to new levels.  He hates like no other and now abuses his power with the Royal Commission into Unions and directing departments to dig dirt which the RC has not asked for.  If you think  Abbott &amp; Co are looking after your interests Happy you are sorely mistaken.  It's all for big private business.Really - just ridicule.  Personally I am pretty sure that all Abbott lovers are Labor haters - it comes through loud and clear with the venomous comments for some years now.  You support all his broken promises and lies.  I don't know how you live with yourselves - in love with a government kicking the boot into all the less fortunate.There is an archive full of them here on Drum/Unleashed.  Such convenient short memories.Phase it out over ten years at the most, starting now.Or just stay in your own home and not claim it as an expense or as a way to pay the mortgage (if any) and so get a house paid for by the taxpayer.  Harry, it is a disgusting perk.But Alfie those other leaders did not say the same at all.  Abbott said so much more and it was pretty disgusting stuff.Labor's 'backflip' on abolishing negative gearing was all to do with negative reaction from powerful rich sector and political pressure.  It had nothing to do with prices - that never happened.  The abolition of it lasted for such a short time.  They should have stuck with it and not folded.Actually for the professional property investor all their investing is done via the profits from the capital gain.  The capital gain is their income and therefore it must be taxed.We already have a fair PPL - all get the same.  Employers are free to offer/negotiate different terms and that is how it should be.  Abbott's insane PPL flies in the face of everything they say about waste.  It's indefensible AJS.  We don't pay pensioners based on their last earnings.The Senate is hostile because they have been presented with a grossly hostile budget.  The only person truly in love with it is Joe Hockey and Tony Abbott.A brilliant, clear and precise summing up of the situation Mr Dunlop.  The pity is that this piece arrives shortly before the Drum closes down.Excellent point and made so simply and beautifully.O Happy, the debt was sustainable (just like most mortages) but your denial of the GFC and climate change continue to show you up as a bit of a nong.  Ultimately a living planet is what we want for our children.  A dishonest, lying and conniving government is bad for everyone, even you.  John Howard is starting to look quite reasonable.The top tax rate used to be 60% until Hawke/Keating lowered it.  The top tax rate of 45% doesn't kick in till you earn $180,000 and Hockey has put the extra temporary tax on, not Labor. In fact individual income tax rates have done nothing but come DOWN. All the analysis shows that this sharing you talk about is heavily weighted to the poor and less well off taking the lion's share.  When you comment it would be a good idea to touch on reality every now and then so you don't sound so darn ignorant.There is a problem with statistics - if you draw conclusions from insufficient data you won't get the right answer.  The disadvantaged households may all be pensioners and students who are less likely to have cars.  The information is incomplete.  How much you may pay extra depends on your total kilometres and fuel efficiency - nothing to do with your income.  This 30 or 40 or 100cents extra then attracts GTS and it gets increased every six months.  Before you know it it will be $2 or $3 extra a week - it will compound.I'm not trying to be amusing, just sticking with facts and Joe Hockey is not dealing with facts as I pointed out.  The price on carbon/ETS was Labor policy and I always agreed with it.  Most people were compensated for its impact on their cost of living.  I was not 'rabid' john1, just straight forward and you should know the difference.  Hockey's Liberal Budget is one great big pack of lies supported by the likes of you who will defend anything no matter how putrid each matter is.  And none of this is the least bit amusing.Highly unlikely John1 and there are no stats to back your 'fact' up.  One fact you need to know is that everyone who doesn't live in a capital city drives a lot as they have no choice.  Maybe we should all move to the big smoke, stop growing food and clog up your expensive roads and tollways and put housing prices up so you can whinge some more.Dear john1 - I thought you followed me more closely than you appear to.  I live in rural NSW - I'm surrounded by cattle, sheep and grain growing.  I never said country people are all poor - my point was that we have no public transport and no choice but to drive cars (of many kinds of course).  Your grasp is very odd john1 but as to distances you don't have a darn clue.  It is Hockey's insane argument which is a complete crock apart from the proposal being another broken promise.You are correct.  That graph and the information it contained does no give the real picture - those statistics are not available.  The graph has been misread and misinterpreted.  About the only people in rural/regional areas who can live without a car are those in nursing homes.Yep - I moved to the country many years ago.  I live 6 kms from a small village and 22 from Albury.  Families who have sporting kids drive so much so often, it's mind boggling.  Many have to drive to Melbourne for medical specialist treatment.  The train is hopeless - doesn't run every day and there is a bus instead.  But the reason for constant increasing of the excise being dumped was the introduction of the GST - a tax on a tax which kept growing.  Shorten has got to stop sounding reasonable - he just sounds boring unfortunately.  Such a pity Albo isn't the leader.We are of one mind.  I lived in Melbourne and Sydney then to the country.  In Sydney I had a small motor bike.  I think 4 litres of petrol lasted me a month !   I don't think Sydney needs any more roads, they just fill up.  More reliable trains would be great.Indexing the fuel excise every 6 months means that in two years it will probably cost $2 a week extra and we will having nothing of long lasting use to show for it.  More roads in Sydney, bugger all in the rural/regionals and all those roads need constant maintenance, i.e. more money spent. Our rail and public transport should be the priority.  Medicare covers you regardless of your personal habits Todd.  NIDS levy will not cost you thousands but it will help many thousands of people.  Some people can't help be miserable it seems.  Your choice how many people in your family you support - get over it as they say.  Yes, the important issues are left to Labor.It's all been based on the lie that average GP visits per annum were 11.  The fact is that they are closer to 5.  If there are a few 'worried well' I think it matters not a jot.  Everyone in my family sees the doctor an average of 1.5 times a year.Except they don't do that at all.  In my local village they often meet up at the bakery.I think it applies to all and the rebate is going down.  Either way, it hasn't been explained properly.  I'm totally against it and the stupid Medical Research Fund.  They've slashed medical related matters elsewhere to the tune of $7 Billion to plonk into the fund.  It's rotten and unsupportable.  Combine that with their plans to flog off Medibank and outsource Medicare refunding it all stinks.  Hand over government business to big private business to run and make money from.  Bonkers.  Save money?  No way.Not so simple.  The more people pay for a scare product the more everyone pays.  When the Aust dollars goes up they pay more, when it goes down they pay less.  It isn't the same for every product or resource - some are just local and subject to the existence of good or bad weather for instance.   All governments have in the past supported the local car industry for good reasons - that is until Abbott came along.  Unlike your local butcher or supermarket, the mining industry avoids paying taxes through complicated exchanges with their foreign owners and associated companies.  I don't think there is more than one or two mining companies who pay the actual rate of company tax - they miraculously manage to pay around 15%.I still can't fathom why you and others believe that putting motor vehicles together is unskilled work.  The motor industry did not getting govt money for its entire life here but the whole thing is far more complicated that you suggest.  Explain why Abbott picks his winners and losers, i.e. why $16 million for a chocolate factory to have a tour guide.  They had that up and running way back in the 60s.So why did you call them unskilled AE?  We used to have tariffs on everything imported, not just to protect our car industry.  I happen to think having a car industry has wider ramifications - skills and ability to do engineering projects as well as all the parts suppliers. AE, what guy at what shop?  Sweeping statements need some sort of context. The assistance given does gets repaid through employees paying their taxes and contributing to society and maintaining it.  Abbott &amp; Co have scared off Billions of dollars in renewal energy projects.  Economically nothing Abbott &amp; Co makes an ounce of sense.I don't believe you for a moment.  But just for argument's sake, I'll  spare a moment and ask - if that was the case then why weren't the car manufacturers hiring school leavers, firing them after a couple of years and hiring fresh school leavers?  No skills required or needed, eh.I think you might have added too many 0s to the 8.  I can't see Sydney from here (8 hour drive away) but if it is full of cranes it must look bloody awful.  Are they pulling office blocks down to make room or has the govt given them more of that precious public space for peanuts and casino tax revenue?It's called buying and selling.  Just shuffling things around I'm sure and not doing anything useful.That's already been done over the years and it makes no real difference.  History will tell you that.  There is no trickle down effect.Hmmm - changing subject of discussion John?  I can see this slipping into something else - climate change.  Your points sound like you  ought to be supporting a price on pollution, an ETS even.  What next?Not so Steve - not in content or in purpose.  Certainly nothing to do with spying on Australians.Irrelevant now PtL - Labor way back in the 80s (I think) wanted a national ID card and that never happened due to the outrage and opposition from the Libs and their various cheer squads.  Brandis &amp; Co don't really know what metadata is because it is many things but mainly the whole plan is a distraction from their many failings.  Oh, look terrorists are going to kill us (we had Vietnam and Iraq because of that tactic).Their Young Liberals President is an IPA operative, er, member.  But basically the IPA founded the Liberal Party.  They have done no good unlike the Unions who founded Labor.Many lies and fifty broken promises plus a horror budget which does not do what Hockey professes it does.  Add to that Abbott bullying Putin and the loss of exports to Russia which apparently don't matter a jot according to Barnaby Joyce (unlike their disaster claims re temporary suspension of live cattle trade).  They are 'allowed to govern' APM, the disaster of that is that they don't know how.The ABC's list of promises kept/broken is incomplete.  Here is one example of what's missing:  Environment spokesman Greg Hunt promised last August that in government the Coalition would

    ?... give Landcare significantly greater access to the Caring for Country pool of funds, as well as the current Landcare funding.?

In May, the funding was slashed by $483.8 million.Not agreeing with something which they previously proposed because it was part of a different plan and in conjunction with other things and can't be taken in isolation.  I just don't expect you or Abbott &amp; Co to understand that.  An example, scrap the carbon tax but replace it with an ETS - Labor cannot do one without the other.  This sort of smart alec stuff is pathetic.  Abbott did say PPL over his dead body!  Then he promises one which is now on the shelf but not actually dead and buried.You conveniently forget that Abbott &amp; Co did oppose pretty well everything Labor put forward.  The only reason Labor succeeded in the Senate and the House was because of a thing called negotiation with the other parties/independents.  I don't think Abbott knows the meaning of the word let alone how to do it - not in his dna.With statistics like yours John then perhaps you can apply yourself to the lies and broken promises of the Budget and you will see why there is so little support for any of it and agree that Labor/Greens/Others are in fact being perfectly reasonable.Good one John coming from the Liberal Fan Club who nearly never address the article or the question and always point to something 'over there' and who frankly never ever deal in facts.  Take your own advice.You are right.  There's disasters and there's disasters.So your guys can do no wrong Trump?  Hockey's budget repairs nothing, it's full of revenge acts but in reality it does nothing but damage, increases the deficit and nearly everyone hates it.But late last month (July) Hockey said to New Zealand "There's no crisis at all in the Australian economy."   Things certainly are getting worse on a number of fronts and they are all of Abbott/Hockey's own making.  They're doing a so much to stuff things up it's hard to believe they could do more yet they do, every week.  We've just lost all our agricultural export market to Russia because Abbott likes to talk tough.  Nuts.

I know and understand  v - you're correct of course.  I hope others read your words but they always get ignored by rusted ons here.  No memory or understanding of anything other than looking after their mates and funneling government business their way.  I've studied the budget papers and they are frightening.Not your reality john1 because obviously you haven't read the budget papers.Exactly my immediate reaction.  Unbelievable.  Garbage article with garbage arguments.Jackie is just being Jackie.  She's something the Libs should love - a breath of fresh air except in her case I prefer her fresh air to that of the lying Abbott.Most elections have not given any government the majority in the House and the Senate.  It might be your desire but it's rare so you, like all previous governments, will just have to live with it.But now we are doing next to nothing - going backwards.  It is as disgusting disgrace and Australia is now a blot on the planet.A bit rich coming from the unreal Realist, big time supporter of the greatest promoter of hysteria Australia ever had, the one and only Tony Abbott - he of the Whyalla wiped off the map, climate change is crap but I believe it anyway so will abolish revenue policies (just because Labor introduced them) and then spend taxpayer funds to bribe polluters to be good guys.  Realist (and aGuy) you are in a very small minority of deniers valiantly repeating your own nonsense on the Drum.It is not particularly relevant but one can access every MP's mini bio on the Party website and mostly they all quote their qualifications and some experience here and there.  So aGuy probably does know Evan.Rusty you couldn't be more wrong.  Banks just do not like and never have liked lending money for anything other than a sure thing - mainly housing.  The money lent for clean energy projects has been extremely successful.  The CEFC is profitable.  Not a 'spiv or a scammer' in sight (that's what the banks have been up to actually) and some of those applying for a Green Loan have been, cue shock, horrow, farmers.Since when is a loan a 'handout'.  Those receiving a loan do pay it back.  They are highly successful.  The CEFC dares to fund things which banks are too scared of because they prefer to not bother investigating the viability of alternative energy projects.  You have no argument.  You just love telling lies.  Pathetic.From the little we know of Abbott's Direct Action part of it is indeed that but it is not particularly effect in combating climate change.  Explain then why Abbott halved funding to Landcare but expects it to do twice as much work.  Your effort at twisting what Abbott is doing into something good is becoming extremely tortured.More garbage from you Realist.  I know far far more than you regarding natural resource management.  Some organisations do do more with less because of voluntary labour and individual farmer commitment to improve their land.  This is all good but it is not a direct anti climate change thing - it is about land management, saving water, preventing erosion, pest control etc.Still a pittance.  If they could have avoided it they would have done that too.  Avoiding company taxes through these 'legal' means must be stopped.  You should be lobbying for them to pay their due taxes.  The SMH exposed Glencore's disgusting behaviour.Exactly rattan.  Also the GST and other everyday things we all pay.  I cannot for the life of me understand why these Abbott lovers support the abolition of revenue streams because the poor old mining companies really are doing it tough.  They're all bonkers.Tragically all those swinging voters at the last election just remained completely ignorant of the consequences of their action.  They voted for most of this loss of revenue thinking it would reduce the deficit because Labor were 'incompetent financial managers'.  They were wrong and Australia is so much the worse off.I do blame the Coalition but more particularly Abbott and his closest cronies.  Those voters were ignorant and unquestioning because they also believed they could trust Tony.  Sad.Making up what the Green's think or believe does you no good.  You're writing a load of nonsense.  Wanting sustainable industries is not anti-industry.  And where in the heck did you get the idea they are anti-agriculture.  Todd it may surprise you but most farmers are greenies, they just won't say it because the word Green/Greenie has been so bastardised by the Libs/Nat it is taboo - so they say 'I'm not a greenie, but .....' and then go on to say how they support sustainability.  And they don't like Coca Cola pinching underground water to put in plastic bottles - they'd rather grow carrots or spuds with it !Academically he just passed.  Very average.Financial planning advice from a bank is an oxymoron.  My advice is do your own homework, stick money in a fixed term deposit and consider only blue chip stock and pay off your mortgage asap.  Don't gamble.To quote from your article Ms Twomey: 'Section 53 says that a bill is not to be regarded as imposing taxation if it just imposes a pecuniary penalty or a fine.'   And that is precisely what was being proposed - precisely.  Not taxation at all, not a burden on the people at all.   In the meantime I am sure Clive and his PUPs will be scrutinising with a great deal of attention all future legislation coming the way of the Senate.  The particular case at hand is highly unlikely to occur again and should not have in the first place if Abbott &amp; Co had not attempted to play funny buggers.  You can't trust Abbott, full bloody stop.I read it alright and that is just an excuse especially in that it is not in the constitution.  My suspicion is that Abbott's mob pulled this off in order to give them time to sort out the mess of their own making.To anyone dismissing my comment, this is what the bill contained (the one which PUP said did not follow through with the agreement): 'Main Repeal Bill also amends the CC
Act to includesanctions for contraventions of these provisions. These sanctions includemaximum civil pecuniary penalties of 6,461 penalty units ($1,100,070) and1,295 penalty units ($220,150) for corporations and individuals respectively
for contravention of the relevant provisions, and other redress and
enforcement mechanisms. These include actions for damages, injunctions,and a range of punitive, non-punitive and other orders, including a newpower for the court to make orders limiting prices and re ...'.
Now, the bill already included financial penalties but PUP wanted greater penalties (double the amount owing).   How could PUP's wanting their penalties be unconstitutional when there were already penalties there.  If it is deemed unconstitutional it becomes confusing and then one wonders why Abbott &amp; Co didn't have the right penalties there in the first place.Indeed if Abbott had an agreement with PUP and failed to follow through on that agreement it must be PUP's fault!!Good point.  It wasn't unconstitutional (whether or not the others knew or not).  I think Abbott's mob lent on the Clerk on the quiet because they didn't know if they were Arthur or Martha.  It was a schemozzle which they started.To you and the other responses.  If Abbott &amp; Co had put the agreed amendments (as per what PUP asked for) up there would not have been a problem.  Abbott &amp; Co did not follow through on the agreement.  Therefore Abbott &amp; Co stuffed up in the first place.But that was not what actually happened.  If you keep leaving certain events out of the equation you can get any answer you like.  Abbott &amp; Co were dealing with the amendments.  They were as ignorant as you claim the PUP were on procedures.  PUP are not the government, it was not their legislation.  They said they would support it with certain amendments.  Those amendments were not in accord with the agreement.  Therefore, clearly it is Abbott &amp; Co who stuffed up.Sheesh to you too frangi.  Go and read the legislation being put to the Senate by the bloody government.  It had amendments which were supposed to be those agreed to by PUP for PUP's support.  They didn't so PUP opposed the legislation.  That's the short version.  Again, it was Abbott &amp; Co who wanted to push it through the Senate.  Abbott &amp; Co stuffed up (actually it was Abetz who was the major stuffer upperer).   PUP couldn't give a stuff whether or not the legislation was presented last week, this week or next week!  Abbott &amp; Co caused the mess and no totally convoluted wrangling rubbish argument on your part can change that.Yes, Palmer did want to amend the amendments - to change the inadequate penalty to a real penalty.  Unconstitutional or not, Abetz and his lot were busy trying to accommodate that until the Clerk made her statement.  None of that changes the fact that Abbott &amp; Co stuffed up all by their own actions.  (I do not know if changing an existing penalty to another penalty is unconstitutional but it stretches the imagination to say that Palmer/PUP tried to introduce the monetary penalty because it was already there!)Obviously I have no idea but nothing is impossible with Abbott &amp; Co.  But only with Abbott &amp; Co  can you can get such a mess occurring in the Senate.  Takes a special talent to do that !They covered it about a dozen times.  Frankly I got sick of seeing her grinning face time and again as she was hustled and bustled by her security guards.Do you think that every new Senator or MP knows it all inside-out and right down to every detail?  Picking on PUP who had all this thrown at them in the first week is very unkind.  What is particularly clear is that the Libs themselves were just as ignorant because they didn't know what they were doing either.  Pot, kettle, black.......I'm pleased to read that frangi.  But I must remind you that Abbott and all his supporters here on the Drum said umpteen times that Labor's Gillard government was illegitimate and other words to that effect.  All through the last parliament Abbott &amp; Co's policies were not scrutinised, he had little criticism (except by posters like me on the Drum) here and in the MSM.The stuff up was done by your fools in government who thought they could put one over Clive.What I know Sue is what I have read.  Abbott did not present the agreed wording of the legislation - minor penalty and no guarantee that all price increases would be passed back.  Clive tried to rectify it.  Abbott and his mob buggered it up and it was they who had imposed the impossible time limit.  I was watching the Senate on the day.  Abbott and his lot totally stuffed up.  I don't blame PUP and good on them for seeing that they were stitched up.Take your own advice China.  I'm right and you're just defending the impossible.  Abbott &amp; Co totally stuffed up.  As for parliamentary procedure - did you notice that Speaker Bishop rewrites the rules every day?   The Senate is not so manipulated but you can't blame PUP for trying to correct something which they were promised and not delivered by the sneaky lying Liberals.SueB -  no you are completely wrong.  You are deliberately pretending certain events did not take place.  Just like the Libs who insist that Labor said it would scrap the carbon tax.  Leaving out the rest of the sentence which said it would be immediately replaced by an ETS.I doubt that the uneducated can educate.  SueB - guess what else?  It is about Abbott - a bloke who received an education and learnt nothing of value.Proving yet again with this essay on politics that Hewson is the best Liberal PM we never had.
Yes Alpo.  But Hewson was never a nasty mean tricky liar.Ignoring the fact they increased the deficit and the debt and that Abbott promised no cuts to the ABC, education, health, pensions etc and that they thinking saving money can be done by abolishing revenue producing policies at the same time as introducing extremely expensive upper class welfare (PPL) well I guess you might have a point somewhere there with they have stopped the boats arriving in Australia.You've misread the comment.  You are both on the same page.Perhaps john1 you could explain why these hugely unpopular policies 'are what is required'.  The explanations given by Abbott/Hockey/Pyne/Dutton are all a complete load of contrived reasoning as well as cherry picked codswallop.  Also a load of new policies which they never promoted prior to the election.  Did you not notice that they somewhat miraculously managed to massively increase the deficit and debt all on their own.  They are paddling us down poo creek.That's been done in America.  You should have watched the very informative 4 Corners last week.  It is stored in molten salt. My own solar powered snake repeller stores power overnight - I can hear it beeping in the dark and on cloudy days.Solar, and wind, is already here Doc Goh.   Your retorts are getting weirder and weirder.  What doctorate do you actually possess and where did you obtain it?  It seems to have done you no good.John Coochey - did you notice during your extensive research that wind farms are erected in windy areas and are assessed for their suitability.  Still I suppose you are in the Hockey camp which finds wind farms an obscenity from which one must assume that you and he find open cut coal mines the most beautiful sight on earth.Australia is not just the ACT.Just what infrastructure is that Bulldust?  Are you a front for a foreign investment mob digging our minerals/ores up and taking all the profits off-shore.  That would make you happy but ultimately it does bugger all for Australia.I'm not against mining.  I worked for a mining company for nearly four years.  I'm against complete foreign ownership.  Australian companies can borrow the capital wherever they like.  The difference between your take on investment and mine is that we are giving it away for a pittance.  Foreign companies have bought out Australian mining companies (e.g. BHP) and they have benefited from all the hard work of Australians and our early geological exploration and mapping.  Royalties are insufficient.  I see a better way than you do.Getting money from 'overseas'  is not the same as having foreign ownership.  I'm retired now and all of my friends are employed.  Your argument is a load of outback bulldust.Labor promised to scrap the price on pollution and move directly and immediately to the ETS, i.e. a year earlier than already planned and legislated for.  It is the Liberals under Tony Abbott who are labeling themselves the destroyers.Only in your world of the weird and wonderful lies Alfie.It is jacko.  Going backwards is in fact a very expensive and detrimental aim.  I think you might be on your own in embracing that.Predicitions are, tragically, coming true.  Glaciers are melting, sea temperatures are rising, the climate is changing.It is a problem which you are clearly blind to and I do wonder what the heck your agenda is - billie, you and your fellow deniers.  Remaining wilfully ignorant on the subject and throwing up stupid diversions, confusing weather with climate.  The fact is that most people are not losing interest.Billie have not read nothing at all on the consequences.  Check out the archives here.  We can adjust/adapt for a while but without taking action to prevent further overall temperature increases we are going to be stuffed.   Consequences are already happening - even in Victoria there are areas which are no longer suitable for sheep/cattle/dairy farming and they have moved into cropping.  Fish are turning up in oceans where they have not been before and others are diminishing or disappearing.  Our droughts and floods and storms are more frequent and harder hitting.  Bees are having to be transported 1000 kms to canola crops because of drought and no native tree flowering.  We need bees for pollination for our food.
Clearly you have not lost interest in climate change because you are reading this article and having your fun being extremely annoying.The GP co-payment is as good as a cut and the money does not go into health but to a hitherto underheard of magic Future Fund.  The cuts to education are in the funding of Universities being cut by humungus amounts to be paid for by students whose HELP loans will double or triple.  The other 'cuts' to future State funds for Health and Education are apparently arguable but the States are not one bit happy with the forecast funding which are seen as cuts.No, Happy - they volunteered to go back.  That's a fact.Because, after all (after what?) going back to Malaysia may have had a considerable effect, but, after all, we'll never know.Overall the discussion on this article would have to be the worst ever.  Sunk into the pits of lies, garbage and inhumanity.  Most posters are blaming the Greens and Labor and reaching absurd depths of disgusting convoluted blame rants and raving.  In the main they represent the Abbott government and fully support Morrison and secrecy and horror.  What have we come to?More rubbish.  Thanks for nothing and why did you bother?Do you realise that many people don't fall for gross exaggerations and scenarios which don't exist.  Do you realise that a minimum of 180,000 people migrate here every year and they are all economic migrants.  Do you realise that Abbott halved the humanitarian intake.  Do you realise that he does not have a shred of empathy in his body - just like Morrison.Everything we and the ABC know of is being reported Harry.  Your problem actually is that there is no good news - it's just news.I do, I do - everything but the footy and celebrity crap.  Maybe you could mention what the ABC has missed Realitycheck.I think he did respond to the article China and I also think he has a point there.  They don't however deserve any of those silly nicknames and that's where the snobbery lies.Well in that case China it is in fact typical of most of the Righty posters here who ignore many articles and attack the writer as they view them of the Left - most recent example being Ian Verrender.You could apply those thoughts to many of the other Party senators there.  There have been plenty of shockers over the years.But he did not and could never make the ABC his political tool.  However, that is precisely what Abbott &amp; Co are attempting to do, now.I really think you are missing something Mick.  On the whacky scale the Abbott government wins hands down.  Abbott swore he wouldn't negotiate or do deals.  Let's see what happens.Oh dear Mick.  You began with the whacky bit.  Abbott has been whacky for as long as I've known him as a public figure, i.e. a political adviser and then as a politician.  He's whacky and nasty and already doing over Australia - I don't have to wait !There was no alliance.  It was confidence in Julia Gillard to form government.  Unfortunately no amount of explanation will suffice for you and Abbott's other little troop here.  Negotiating usually means some compromise, otherwise known as a deal.    Like Howard's deal with Meg Lees.The only recovery we need is the retention of Pollution and Carbon taxes (onwards to an ETS), no company tax cuts, no special PPL costing billions, no socking away $10billion rising to $20billion into a a farce of a Future Fund.  Add the $8billion thrown to the RBA for no reason and we're right back on track sorting out the revenue problem.The people did not vote for stuffing the tertiary education system, for GP co-payments, for gutting Landcare, cutting the ABC, for a farcical medical future fund, for no support for 6 months when unemployed, for abolishing pensioners entitlements, and the list goes on.  They were lied to time and time again burke.  The blinkers are coming off regarding what the world is doing about climate change and we are now being seen as fools.I hope the Senate is as difficult as possible.  I would remind them too that the Abbott government doesn't know the meaning of the words truth and honesty.One would need to read the archives in the Sydney Morning Herald to find what, if anything, Verrender said about that matter.  He wrote in the Business Section.  Do you have a reference for his writings because you do know he wasn't holding forth on the Drum until recently.   Either way, TOJ don't you think the whole things deserves a Royal Commission and not the watering down of FoFA?You're writing rot TOJ.  I can't see anything in Verrender's writing which says or indicates he is a Labor fan.  He just writes about all kinds of economic policies.  He also pointed out a couple of years ago that ASIC made close to $700 Million in profit through the fees it charges.  I don't know where that money went but it seems that ASIC was always neglecting its real job and Verrender pointed out many of its failings.    Your views on FoFA are rather peculiar and not shared by anyone with a brain.With respect then TOJ, these matters are not political.  It's about ASIC and financial advice disasters.  It's Cormann who is weilding political clout (and I don't agree with his reasoning).  Heaven help anyone writing a gardening article - I'm sure you'll come out calling them Green stooges or some other brainless reaction as evidenced again by your take on financial advice and FoFA.They are usually incorporated bodies and as such those audited accounts must be submitted to ASIC.  To clarify your statement - it is not submitted to the ATO.Very funny TOJ.  The ABC is busting at the seams with a wide range of opinion writing and comments.  So is Fairfax.  It is all very diverse.  The Australian throws in the odd sensible political/topical article but you have to be quick or you miss it.Another brilliant and well written article from clear thinking Tim Dunlop.I agree with your view.  A lot of the child-care is provided by profit oriented businesses.  It should all be government run.  Got to laugh at the anti-nanny state Liberals who are quite likely to help pay for nannies.  It all gets worse by the day/week.It would assist the quality of your comments if for once you actually knew what you were talking about gd.  Your Abbott government are clueless on what to do and think abolishing revenue making policies  is good and cutting company taxes is good.  Most people know that that does not make sense.  Keeping promises does not matter (so did they lie?) and being miserable to the poor and less able seems to give them a big thrill.PS:  leave out the 'old' please. I'm actually rather 'hot' !I listened to Graeme Innes, departing Commissioner for Disability Discrimination who did not have his commission extended and is not being replaced, on the television today.  We have had the additional Commissioner for Human Rights, the right wing ex IPA mouthpiece, appointed.  This tells a lot about the priorities of our new no empathy government.  I have deep reservations about the latest McClure report and fear the worst.  The system should not be simplified into less categories.  There is no one disability fits all scenario.  Keep up your good work Stella.Indeed it is but it seemed a well planned attack.  All these things were not in their glossy Plan document.  It's disgusting and in John Howard's words "UnAustralian".It's irrelevant to the issue of climate change as to where he lives.  Next you'll be suggesting that people like Christopher Pyne the Minister for Education ought to be qualified in Education.  Actually, that would be a good idea.  Or that Greg Hunt, the Minister for the Environment, should actually advocate for the environment and not against it.Melting glaciers and warming oceans not good enough for you?  What is causing that JohnM?  We know CO2 concentrations are increasing and we know we can stop them increasing further so why not do that.  We know fossil fuels are limited and that solar power is unlimited so why not accelerate that changeover, create new industries and employment and all live the better for it.The Labor Party and the Greens Party are not meaningless distractions Tim.  Do you want a dictatorship or a democracy, PUP, warts and all?To describe the Clean Energy Finance Corporation as 'rent seeking' is abominable Mr Cowan.  Where is Mr Palmer a 'masked figure'.  Deary me, and you expect I suppose for us to take your thoughts here seriously.Clean energy and projects which the CEFC are funding, via loans, is not only profitable, it is the way of the future.  I can't understand why Liberals and capitalist supporters are so against it in the same way I can't understand why they don't support an ETS - a market based scheme.Speaking for myself, I have answered your question on a number of occasions (not necessarily asked by you but by your cohort).  If we can accommodate 180,000 to 300,000 regular migrants per year all we should do is to reduce that number and increase the intake for asylum seekers.  We should just change the mix.  I would also urge that you and yours cease with this 'open borders crowd' crap as I am sure the vast majority who take an interest in migration approve of an annual manageable cap.Well just suppose that I didn't - I suggested it be less than that because I didn't rule out all regular migration.  Your ability to think rationally doesn't seem to exist.  50,000 seems to be the maximum we have had.  We already have a maximum humanitarian intake (halved by Abbott) so I fail to see how we can't manage to increase that figure to accommodate more asylum seekers who make it to Indonesia and take them from there before they desperately get on a little boat.Just to remind you that it is not a carbon tax, it is a price paid by industries for polluting.The construction mining phase can't go on year in and year out.  You do realise that we are back into the extraction phase - the bit where they make good on their investment.  Taxes do not come into any of this as a. mining taxes are far less than you believe and b.  the price of the ore/mineral dictates what is worth doing or not doing.  That is how it has been for a long long time gbe.Thank you Rae for that timely reminder.  I never forgot those details.
We need another Gough.And it did just what it said it would.  Abbott now wants to abolish the CEFC  which is making money at the same as funding projects which the private sector never had the guts to do.Not only is Paula wrong on the facts she's also missing some.  When Howard caved in and agreed to freeze the excise it was because he had also introduced the GST - a tax on a tax.  It wasn't fair.  I've long wondered just what the Libs have against public transport and why this sudden urge to build so many more roads which never solve the problem and the roads just fill up.Having finally completed the Hume Freeway, there is no expenditure on roads in any areas outside the big capital cities.  And the State gives bugger all.  It's left to local government who are also getting less.  Defending Abbott's sudden obsession with roads is not a winner EVAN.You can say whatever you like about the source but it is factual and oh so true.Tragically it was Abbott who made it political.  It used to be bi-partisan.You don't have a straw to clutch on Ben.  Howard went to the 2007 election with an ETS.  Abbott changed his mind (with Minchin's help and blessing) because he will never agree with anything Labor says or does - Abbott just does or says the opposite.  There are still a few things which need not be political, even in politics.Dear Mr Tehan, Liberal Member for Wannon, might I suggest that your government is only making matters worse.  Your education policies, secondary and tertiary, are appalling, your attitude to the young is to further discourage them.  If Mr Abbott couldn't give a stuff about putting the most important issue of climate change on the G20 agenda just where do you think he might put your concerns?  He's already flung it into the too hard baset.They're pointing upwards JohnM.  The glaciers are melting JohnM.  The ocean tempertures are rising JohnM.  Something is out of whack and it's not just the Abbott shambolic mob of deniers and liars.Menzies never had a concept of a surplus.  Fraser couldn't come at surpluses.  Whitlam had a surplus every year.   Labor's 2013 Budget had us on a good trajectory but now it's off in every bloody direction under Abbott.  Nothing makes sense.  Tell you what I think - you're all bonkers.Iko - look at the Liberals' background.  Mostly lawyers and ex pollie hacks and none have produced a thing either.What left are you talking about here?  It's an article on the true situation.  From my point of view I seem to hear nothing from the Right or any Liberal government praising Unions - it's all unions are bad, unions are thugs and then we got Howard's noWorkChoices.  Mr Steketee proves that nothing is out of whack for business, if anything it is the other way around TC.  You can get rid of that hopeless person you chose, you just have to follow a couple of simple processes, written warning - just do a fair dismissal.  Not that hard and then be more careful when selecting a new person.That again WS - how?Yes, I posted the correct details but it did not get up.  This abolish the States stuff comes up every now and then but we are stuck with it under the Constitution.  The problem is not so much the population but the size of the country.I'd suggest you do a Business or an HR course before you go any further with sharing your thoughts micka.  You've tied yourself in a ludicrous knot.Another spot on comment.  I'd add to that the threat to take money off indigenous people whose kids aren't attending school enough.  That'll teach em !  Wouldn't occur to them perhaps an incentive might work better - here's $20 extra a week if your kids go to school !  But, no - it's all penalise and kick and we're in a mess.  Nothing but poo for brains and it's a real pity.It is the truth of the matter oh Evil one.  There is nothing in Abbott's current agenda of 'reform' with any basis or well thought out purpose other than to kill off anything from Labor, kick the less well off and gift as much as possible to the very well off.Here is an out of left answer to your question:  less well off are all the people Abbott and Liberal supporters hate.  The very well off are Abbott &amp; Co's mates, big business and anyone who hates Unions or Labor.I've never met a greedy lefty or Labor person.  The ones that fit the bill that I personally know are all Righties and vote Liberal and only think of themselves.  That is the crux of the problem.Absolute  nonsense APM.  The ABC is the only media in the entire country which gives voice to everything and everyone.  No one wants 'open borders' but the topic has had a great deal of discussion on the Drum where you have just voiced your opinion.With your view it is amazing that we have the telephone and electricity everywhere.You're writing rubbish Gregory.  I have been commenting on the Drum for years now Gregory - you're the newcomer and busy proving what a miserable lot you are.  I know who is devisive and it's not me.  I pretty much do not generalise on anything other than the mindset of Liberal supporters' comments here.  You accuse me of doing exactly what your fellow travellers say here on a very regular basis (gross exaggerations and put words in my mouth!)Perhaps you would prefer Abbott &amp; Co to still be in opposition attacking the government left, right and centre on matters of no substance.  With Abbott &amp; Co in government you have to get used to criticism - that is the way things are.  Just be thankful that Abbott &amp; Co are still being let off very lightly.  Mr Green is not biased - he's just commenting on the facts of the matter.You don't know the meaning of the word 'reform' custard.  The Abbott/Hockey budget just beats up Australians and picks winners (the wealthy and big business) and losers (the rest of the country).What happened in Greece has absolutely nothing to do with Australia and it would do you well to become better informed.  The winners can only make money if people buy their products.  If people become generally a lot worse off so too will business.  It all goes round.  There is nothing in this horror Abbott/Hockey budget which has a thing to do with economic reform as they are doing everything against any sensible reform to the point of abolishing those very reforms which did exist.We are china.  We don't get it now, getting less is just not bloody well on.  Where is that darn useless National Party.  That private delivery mob you refer to are not at all competitive in rural areas because they have to travel greater distances.  Australia Post's mail and parcel delivery is efficient - it's why the Parcel side is making money.If you lived in a rural area you would know better than to say rubbish to that.  You are wrong.  Maybe if we just stopped sending our food to you big city types you might appreciate us better.I've made it loud and clear many times on The Drum that I live in a rural area.  If you hadn't rubbished Australia Post I would not have concluded you live in a big city.  Either way, you are still talking rubbish.  Letters and parcels are the business of Australia Post.  Neither really need to be profitable, they are a service and they pay their way anyway.More nonsense.  To get your mail from one capital city to another, or between any major centres, it has to travel all over the place.  Farmers certainly do sell their produce but tragically they don't get to set the prices.  You (we) get it too cheap.Actually that is true.About this merit-less Fund, the money does not all come from stealing from the sick poor (the co-payment).  It already has about $8 Billion stuck into it by cuts to many other health programs (mostly abolished but the money 'saved' is socked away into this fund) - it includes funds which were for dental health, eye health, preventative health, food safety etc.  They have also stolen the existing Health fund money ($1Billion) and stuck into their new future fund.  It all stinks.Yes indeed.  But the top rate of 45 cents in the dollars doesn't come in until $180,000.    RayS - there are plenty of us who are more than heartily sick to death of this notion that Labor were basically useless spendthrifts when every fact under the sun says otherwise.  Labor have been excellent at managing the finances - they actually put in the hard yards and when they do spend we have good things to show for it.  The other current Abbott &amp; Co mantra about building infrastructure makes me want to puke.  Nearly 12 years under Howard saw nothing but the basics maintained plus a bit of railway between Alice Springs and Darwin.No, I didn't say that.  Liberals produced 10 and Labor produced 6.  It is a pity that none of your comment makes an ounce of sense.Berg has no hindsight.  With the stimulus we would have been in big trouble and the debt would have been huge due to massive unemployment and higher outgoings in benefits and less in revenue.  It really is a lot like vaccination - its works.  Don't vaccinate and then things go pear shaped.

The current flow of lies dealt out by the Liberals has got to be pushed back by sensible people including what remains of intelligent MSM and all MPs outside the LNP - they are not doing their job.How and how quickly in order to serve the purpose.  In my opinion spending on schools was brilliant.  Pity Liberals never think so unless they are all private schools (and they got it too anyway!).Ricciardo is fabulous and a beautiful driver.A desperate comment from you instead.  The budget is indeed a hot topic because the budget is such a mean, horrid and mindless piece of work.  The only thing methodical (the Lib Ministers favourite word) about it is how it gives to the wealthy and to business and takes from the less well off and continues with their long held plan to get rid of Medicare, good education and to stuff the environment.Sorry but you've lost me with your explanation.  There is of course, The Budget and then there are The Things in the Budget.  It is the Things which are disgusting and remain topical.  Those Things are the core of our society and must be discussed and not blithely accepted.  Most was not foreshadowed at all and that is why the discussion must continue.Abbott opposed good policy.  Labor (and it seems the Greens, PUP and some independents) oppose bad policy and most of the people seem to be in agreement - this budget is a disaster and anti-society, anti-education, anti-health and anti-environment.Indexation was discontinued by Howard because he could not avoid the truth that his GST was a tax on a tax and both were to be an upward spiral.  When petrol prices go up so does the GST take.  The proposed reintroduction stinks even more when you are told money all goes toward more roads in the big cities while at the same time regional/rural areas get bugger all and now even less as grants to local government have been frozen and councils have to cut services.  Yep, mean all right.The problem is not PUP and Labor will not negotiate on the remaining horror Budget.  The problem is Abbott/Hockey's budget - it's an attack on all Australians and so is everything they have said about their disgusting budget.  Now Abbott &amp; Co are into blackmail.  Worst government in our history.This budget does nothing good.  My earlier slightly detailed reply has not come up.  I'd suggest you read the budget papers and inform yourself of the truth of the matter.  The country would be decidedly better off with a Labor budget which continued along the lines of its 2013 budget which means restoring its revenue sources which Abbott and Hockey have seen fit to abolish.Neither did the Howard/Costello budgets.  The surplus was always more than predicted.  It is a problem which is always there.  Estimating the revenue is just that, an estimate - whereas the expenditures are usually spot on barring real emergencies (e.g. the GFC).  Menzies never managed a surplus, Whitlam had a surplus every year of his government.  The mania for surplus is a recent thing.  Better to aim for a balanced budget and there is nothing wrong with some debt.Abbott lied and then tried to make his lie true by giving different criteria to work on.  But the truth remains that his mob have doubled the deficit all by themselves.Yes ScottBE.  Ignoring the fact that this Abbott mob don't know the meaning of the word negotiate or how to negotiate, I see nothing to negotiate on.  I also can't really see them doing a new Budget as they have locked themselves on to this ghastly trajectory.  So determined that they now resort to blackmail and not demanding your 'left kidney'.We had plenty of anti-Gillard stuff.  Lots of unfavourable repetition of Abbott's slogans and mantras and highlighting his stunts - always getting coverage for every appearance in the fluoros.  For a lefty it was not nice and the 7.30 Report was a gift to Abbott.  Now it is Abbott's turn to be under the spot light and you don't like it.  Tough.Exactly so JohnC.  As avid news readers we used to buy 3 different papers every day (except Sundays).  About 8 years ago I ceased our sub to The Australian and just bought the weekend one mainly because of the weekend mag.  Then it got just too awful and five years ago we cancelled that.  Then I used to see what their latest crap was on-line but then they made it user pays so I just see their headlines which usually bear little relationship to reality.  Just to make sure I wasn't being too harsh I bought one copy of The Australian a couple of months ago.  Things had gone from bad to worse - so bad that it didn't even light the fire (true).That was my first thought.Your imagination has run away with you Heretic.  Abbott/Hockey scrapped the preventative health funding in the horror budget.  Universal health care is best for society but you do have all those private health insurers (for hospital accommodation and various extras) all hugely subsidised by the taxpayer.Well it has been working beautifully here for decades so I don't follow your apparent put down.  The AMA's proposal is their compromise and I see it as pretty useless.  Howard set about making private health insurers more profitable at taxpayers' expense.A lot of people commenting here seem to have completely lost the plot.And then there is Abbott's Team.  I'm not ever going to be in his team as it is full of lying, mean and nasty revengeful hypocrites.Oh no you don't !  They negotiated with the independents and minor parties on all the important and big issues.  The fact the Libs didn't oppose some reasonable house-keeping stuff is just par for the course.  The government has supply.  All being well they will have to drop their education bastardisation policy, the PPL, the co-payment among other things.  And the RET must remain but that is not a budget matter.As it has been for many years the media are far more interested in what the government of the day is doing, doing badly or not doing.  Labor copped it for 6 years, now it's the Lib's turn.  It's all entirely fair that the journos keep doing what they always do.  It would help if Tony Abbott actually made sense once in a while and the same goes for his entire Cabinet.

Did you not notice that the credit card no longer has any limit or that the deficit has doubled and that spending has increased on all the wrong things.  Hypocrites, the lot of them and you WS.Don't you like statistics.  Statistics tell their own story.  

For 5 years we had nothing about how the then opposition under Abbott would step up to anything.  Nothing but slogans and stunts.  If we had more articles on Labor you'd still be complaining that there were no good articles on the Liberals.  When they do something good I'm sure we'll hear about it.  Meanwhile write your own article gbe.Yes statistics can be misused and misused badly if you don't know what the data is about.  But the stats here on this page are all stand alone - one just takes them at face value and then asks questions especially about the Tas literacy findings where one needs to look at demographics.   It may surprise you but I've never liked Martin Ferguson.  He was left in the same position too long and won over by big business and miners and I can see how that happens.  Labor has always had the odd maverick in its ranks as had the Liberals although Howard got rid of most of them and the rest have retired.Peeing in each other's pockets more likely.  Employers need workers and they need customers - it all goes round WS.  Most people in the mining business are very nice and affable, especially the geologists.  I worked in that area for 3.5 years.  Those at the head of these companies are just business oriented and don't like paying company tax.  Anyone would think it came out of their own pockets.  That's the attitude of Abbott, Hockey et al.I'm well aware of his family.  There are quite a few political families in all parties.  It doesn't necessarily follow that they are all good, right or fair dinkum about everything.   Use of the word 'royalty' is the last thing any Labor person would use mortan.  I listened and read Ferguson over many years and I noticed he very specifically changed in relation to industry and mining.  Respect is earned, not inherited btw.  He's done a bit of a Richo and have you noticed the job he now occupies?Seems to me that Ferguson is just helping out with takeovers and providing inside government information and getting his name on boards.  You're welcome to him mortan.  Richo was only ever in it for Richo.Largely true except our town planning is appalling and has not responded as you suggest.  Most of the letters in the SMH are about traffic/train problems, bad planning, no planning and basically situation 'hopeless'.  Those rural villages - well they had horses and buggies and were pretty self sufficient.  Seems to me that the big cities have been structured to depend on those rural areas and their villages for most of their food and a lot of commodities which their financial houses rely on to trade and pay for their harbourside houses and views.  What we need is a 'Back to the Future' car !Nah, silly Hockey can't read statistics and those stats did not say what Hockey said.  Just who were those non car owning households? Many would have been old pensioners for instance.Precisely so John51.  I tend to prefer the median.  An average figure pretty well means that half the population (or the houses, or the farms or whatever) are above the average and half are below it.  The very idea that Hockey attempted to use the ABS and statistics was amazing in itself as reverting to facts is not their forte.  Unfortunately he couldn't even get that right.Well aGuy I think it is you who knows stuff all about farms.  I live on a farm, I'm in a rural area - full of cattle, sheep, pigs and cropping as well as wineries and olives.  The research demonstrates no such thing and nor do the ABS data.  The fuel excise is regressive, not progressive.  Rural people are not at all happy about the prospect of paying more excise to build more roads in the cities because that is where it all seems to go.  You want an environmentally friendly tax then you should favour keeping the price on pollution or going straight to an ETS.  You're a twisted logic mob as always.Exactly !  You can only drive one car at a time.The facts are that the Liberals have always been hopeless on economic matters.  Just because Howard/Costello managed a lot of surpluses they think they are brilliant.  It was a combination of luck and meanness which brought about those surpluses and yet we have nothing to show for it at all (even less when you count the revenues lost through the sale of Telstra and airports).  They ran down infrastructure, gave income tax cuts and socked some billions away to pay for public servants' superannuation - all in one hit which means that those living at the time paid for the lot when it should have been spread out.  When Howard as Treasurer had to deal with an economic downturn he failed miserably.  Menzies never had surpluses.  Before that the Liberals didn't exist.Dear Forrest G - Alpo has kindly answered your question.  I'd add to that the effects of the structural problems started by Howard's income tax cuts and then the high Aust dollar and changes in commodity prices which lead to a decline in revenues.  Now, what is your excuse for Abbott/Hockey et al abolishing Labor's attempt to address the revenue problem and introducing a budget which does nothing to address these problems while at the same time breaking every promise they made?The big problem with Mr Hewson's idea is that the Liberals do not know the meaning of the word 'reform' and they have no intelligent leadership.  (PS - the gst does apply to fast food - all cooked and prepared or processed food.)Actually JMc they are funded - there is an increase in Medicare levy for the NDIS, NBN is off the books and will/is funding itself now.  Gonski is being defunded by the anti-education Liberals.  Labor's 2013 Budget was on track but now your mathematically challenged Libs have doubled the deficit and increased the debt all by their own efforts.I see Realist still making comments which bear no relationship to reality !  The GFC doesn't even get glossed over, it is entirely ignored.  The fact is that Swan's work as Treasurer was brilliant.  Like Keating, it will take the Libs about 10 years to grudgingly acknowledged the excellence of Labor's treasurers.  Hockey is in line for the Dunce of all Dunces award.Royalties are not a tax you know.  It is a price, inadequate as it is, for taking the minerals/ores out of the ground.  Just as the butcher and the baker pay for the carcass and the flour to produce the steaks and loaves of bread, the miners have to pay something for the end product.  Yet the miners, through clever structuring, barely manage to pay half the average rate of tax paid by PAYEs.  As to the rest of your 'points' - you have no points.Not one to be found.  None have done any homework and should all be in detention.The news included the fact that her son nearly died of a brain tumour (or something similar).  Sad that but this article is pretty pointless as far as articles go.It should be noted that even without actually changing the RET investment has fallen to a trickle as those projects have been put on hold just due to the fact of Abbott being elected and voicing nothing but anti renewable energy.  Billions invested last year, down now to a very meagre $40 million.I don't understand your comment Harquebus. There was an article in the SMH about a month ago.  The projects are all good and all real and also ideal for the more remote communities and mines.I believe they do.  Apply your logic to everything else and see where you wind up.It is used in a derogatory manner but only by the Right.  There are plenty of other misused words - left, latte, chardonnay, ivory castle, do-gooder, racist, bleeding, heart, illegals, boat people ...  Only non-feminists do not know the meaning of the word.  They are usually from the Right and don't know the meaning of a lot of words.  Words like truth, honesty and hypocrisy.But they do Lord Stockton.  They do and they have on the Drum too.Abbott was nothing but embarrassing during the entire duration of the G20 getogether.  You're pretty much on your own thinking otherwise.  Did you not read, see or listen to anything coming out of Abbott's mouth?  He succeeded in looking like a complete fool.He didn't mention health care, $7 has nothing to do with health care.  It's local politics and has absolutely nothing to do with the G20 agenda.  Or do you think they should discuss the price of apples, sausages and the cost of resheeting one kilometre of road.  It was not discussed anyway.  Abbott just sounded silly with his entire introduction to the retreat.Some people just can't help themselves and you're one of them Graham.  Have you not cottoned on to the fact that the proposed $7 co-payment goes to the new never announced before Medical Research Fund for some possible stuff in the future.  That budget also cut billions elsewhere from health projects.  World leaders are not the least bit interested in domestic politics and none of you know what was discussed at the Retreat other than Abbott's rather loony introduction.   When Tony says something sensible I'll let you know when the opportunity presents itself.Paula writes 'Whether deserved or not, the Liberals have traditionally been seen as better economic managers' - not traditional at all.  Only became a 'tradition' after Howard and Costello told us that over and over again.  Until now they have never had to manage the Australian economy during very difficult times such as the GFC.  During the Fraser government they did experience some recession and small difficulties but they were totally hopeless at managing it.  Abbott and Hockey are in fact economic illiterates and not understanding the implications of climate change on our economy is their greatest failure.It wasn't and Abbott would not know what metaphor means.You ought to find out how these 'metaphors' you so love translate into a dozen or so other languages.  Start with Hawke's 'silly buggers' and have a good laugh.Keating did no such thing.  A gentle arm at her back.   Abbott's words, his speeches are the topic and sadly he is woeful in every respect.  If you could stomach his small, petty local politics talk among leaders of other nations and love it then like Keating, I say god help us.Queen Liz said nothing - only the stupid British press.  Abbott has been manhandling all the royal family but that's okay with me.  PS: do you actually have a proper mental picture of that event.  It was quite charming.Abbott succeeded in humiliating himself all by himself.  He's lucky the media aren't talking more about his idiocy.  Still there are many of us who thought the ABC was campaigning against Gillard and Rudd and gave Abbott a free ride.  They've all woken up to the fact that we have a fool for a PM and he keeps proving that to the dismay of many.It is balanced.  Paula is an ex advisor to John Howard.  If she thinks Abbott could do better then what must his fellow MPs really think or say if they had the nerve to speak up.  Rudd and Gillard all got bashed around their ears for their gaffs or perceived stuff ups.  Abbott will cop the same because balance does not mean keeping quiet about monumental stuff ups.Wild and unsubstantiated assertions there Trekka.  The ABC has been so balanced that it in fact has been found to tilt to the Right when all is said and done.   Only the Guardian and the SMH publish opinion pieces and allow free comment so why disparage something which gives you that opportunity.  Do you think News Corp allow comments from the Left which tell them how awful they are?  The answer is 'not on your nelly'.Every week RobP.  Usually two of the 'left' and two of the 'right' and someone of note (a scientist, an entertainer, a visitor from overseas).  Look up Q &amp; A archives and find an example.  You won't find it, so stop writing porkies.Rudd got plenty of flak for that incident.  OPEC isn't a person by the way.  Abbott is going to get some flak for his incidents which so far are numerous.  The fact is that Abbott is just a loud mouth and never puts his brain in gear before he lets off with some garbled remark.I don't think Cassidy was writing opinion pieces at the time.  The ABC covered it - the ABC does not indulge in slinging off - it just reports the events.  You have no point.  The rest of the MSM made hay over the flight attendant story.  But News Corp never offers any criticism of Abbott - its world is anti Labor, anti ABC and Abbott is just bloody marvellous.  The ABC is serving no-one's particular political view TOJ but it is the only place you can air your mischievous rot day in and day out, all year.  You should be grateful to and for the ABC.The ABC hosts a lot of excellent and sometimes not so good satire.  You've forgotten the At Home with Julia already?  TOJ you're like all Rightie Libs - huge selective memories.Cassidy started his opinion pieces in December 2009.  I think you have a problem with your accusations TOJ.  Another reminder, OPEC is not a person, not Putin, not leader of any country.  Did he get any criticism in any other media?The ABC gave massive free ranting time to Tony Abbott et al as well as to all his supporters (Reith, the IPA, Kevin Donnelly and many more plus loads of Abbott lovers who constantly comment on the Drum).  Now you want to close down anything unflattering to Abbott and in the same breath rant on about democracy!  What hypocrisy.Yes and perhaps a better education than you WS (your grammar is very bad today).  Born in Pretoria and educated by nuns, Gail Kelly and her husband left the country for a better life here and for their triplets' sake.  Julia Gillard trained as a lawyer and rose to the position of PM which happens to be more important than being a CEO.  Gail Kelly did very well and should live more than comfortably in her retirement.  Both women are proof of what women can do.What a load of bollocks.  Males are already overrepresented.  Did you read your written words first?That has always been women's lot.  Never chosen on merit and watching some bloke whom she probably trained and mentored get the job.  There is no way that Julie Bishop is the only one with merit to gain a Cabinet position.  Just look at the men around her!  All those blokes appointed by another bloke who had the 'power'.What you say about Julia Gillard is utterly disgraceful and you lie about her previous employment.  I can tell you that if you had been born a woman you would see everything very differently.  Men have always had it easy when it comes to promotion and of course never ever countenance that they got the job because they weren't a woman.Her employer denied it.  It's a lie from the Liberals who do and say anything outrageous just because they can.  Basically Abbott was hopeless in his job as a journalist and was readily let go and that's the truth but no one here mentions it.I am a woman and that is the view I have of the employment/promotion situation since I started work in 1966.  Many men I worked with were made to look good because of the excellent people they had working under them.  I could write a book about it.Your figure is a lie.  However, what does it say of John Howard who lost an election and lost his own seat?  A super duper dud.  Julia did not lose last year's election, Kevin did by the way.Does any party?  Anywhere?Hi Keith - my point is that none do.  I have written here before though that population policy is basically this:  Australians can have babies and do their stint at living and then die.  We have an annual migration quota which varies from year to year.  That used to be round 100,000 but has risen to 300,000 and then fallen.  I think it is currently in the vicinity of 150,000.  But on top of that we have many more thousands coming in on 547 visas.  Our own birthrate is not changing much, neither is Europe.  China has had a policy which has curbed its rate of increase.  But, clearly Australia can't dictate population policies to other countries.  The best way is through education.  From what I know the world's rate of population growth will soon plateau and then slowly drop.There is nothing utopian about what I wrote SVJ.  However many Chinese got around the policy it is a fact that you won't find many there with large families since the policy was mandated.  China now has a much larger aged population.  They will have an 'aged care' problem very soon.  Without migration Australia's population would probably cease to increase.
To gbe, the rate of increase will slow - I'm not sure which year it is predicted to plateau so you might like to further research and not just the exact current population figure which proves nothing.Yep, all you denialists certainly don't understand what emissions are and in fact you refuse to understand anything other than utter garbage written on lying websites.Combating climate change will not take away or curtail any of your freedoms.  How do you come up with so much nonsense Graham?  Australia is now the only real odd man out and you think this is good for us?How about you explain yourself first.  What freedoms would be gone?  You already do not have the freedom to pollute at will.  Your sewerage is treated, your garbage must go to the rubbish tip for compacting and/or recycling.  You can't smoke in pubs and restaurants.  You can't put pollutants into rivers and hope it just goes away - you will be massively fined.
Now, I replied to Graham H who made the big statement.  I still can't fathom why you prefer to waste taxpayer money and not charge the polluters.  Charging the polluters did reduce our emissions by 7% as they began to do things better.How?   Have a go at the detail.Does that go for the churches too?  What about all those private companies?Turns out all the religious mobs are heavily into child abuse.  It began with the Catholic Church and the quote is Tony's response i.e. Tony Abbott singled them out for exemption.If you won't accept history then what's the point Harold?  It's clear to me that the Catholic Church is the worst offender especially regarding its many and consistent efforts at the cover up with offending priests being moved around the country and allowed to continue their abusive ways.   I don't 'spout'  Harold - I comment, just as you have.Maybe I should have said that the priests are heavily into child abuse and the church is heavily into the cover up.  You don't have much of a point to make and I can't for the life of me see how you read such a 'tone' into my words which you now have the gall to stretch to 'a reactionary bit of bile spewing from your key board'.  My perception of you is that you are just bonkers.That takes the cake!  You do realise you are the only person taking this insane objection to my comment.  If you don't like getting as good as you gave then don't you be the one starting with the personal insults.An excellent article which puts it all into perspective.  Actual corruption is minor compared with for example the ComBanks' financial advice corruption/scandal.  It has been a very expensive witch hunt.  Corporates get off so lightly but in fact do far more harm and no good.  It's been a satisfying union bashing exercise by Abbott and his shameful Libs.There are many dating back to the 1890s.  Just Yahoo it yourself if you really want to know.You're very confused Ursus.  Child abuse and union corruption or corporate corruption are entirely different things.  Shame on you for even making the suggestion let alone trying to make something different out of it.Labor responded to a very big call from the community regarding child abuse Ursus.  Labor has never done a political witch hunting royal commission.  You're plain wrong.I of course totally disagree with your conclusion and most of your comment.  The extent to which Abbott lovers will go with distortions is just darn well disgusting.That bank did far more harm than any union ever did in 100 years.Bollocks.  It's the huge profits made by construction companies who rip off many sub contractors to do the work.  The winning tender doesn't actually do the work.  They take a lot of cream.Labor just are not the vengeful type Danger Mouse - not yet anyway.  We are know that the AWB scandal had the wrong outcome so why waste money proving so.  Same goes for the Iraq war.  But I do hope they do something about corporate corruption.That bar was in fact set high by Labor and will never be matched by any Lib/Nat ever.  None of the current Ministers or assistants even have a proper grasp of their portfolios and are still stuck with repeating nonsense slogans.  It is a pity but it is the truth.Julie Bishop certainly is not a feminist - most on the right poo-poo the whole notion as it is all lefty stuff.  Yes, just like the union bashing Right, they never acknowledge the achievements of the feminist movement over decades or of Unions over a century.  Working together with 'women of the right' is probably a futile notion Paula - they don't and won't listen.  Why bother.I certainly have not and never would try to work with any Right winger on the matter of feminism.  They don't get it, give lip service to it or don't believe in the notion.  Without feminism they would still have to get a man to guarantee any loan they might be offered.  Like I said - why bother.  Also, please note that my comment was directed at Paula.Just like they are now.Same old Liberals actually.  It was Gough who set up the first decentralisation project in Albury-Wodonga.   Right now it is Abbott who is busy funding Sydney and Melbourne for roads and tunnels they neither need nor want.I read the Sydney Morning Herald and it is regularly full of letters complaining about roads in the wrong places or roads they don't want.  They're obsessed with road planning and constantly criticise.Excellent load of bollocks AE.We always had bracket creep until Paul Keating sorted it out for the first time.  We did not have rampant inflation under Gough.  Gough had three surpluses - one for each year of his government.  There was a global oil crisis which upset the apple cart for every country.  Real inflation took off much later.  No government deliberately sets out causing inflation.  But as usual your comments are always full of make believe nonsense.I've looked up the inflation figures and 13% is more often mentioned.  Whatever it was it was not reflected in all prices.  I received a very modest pay rise and had no trouble paying bills or filling up the petrol tank (except for when they rationed it).  It cost $5 to fill a Mini Minor up.  The cost of renting a flat hardly changed.Yes it does but the brackets are fewer and further between so that the effect of bracket creep is minimal.  Howard's tax cuts will last for quite a while to come before any further adjustment need be made.Please read the comment correctly.  Supwood refers to the reshaping and reconstruction of Fraser which occurred after his prime-ministership.Been a long time since they got free handouts AE.  At best they are offered low interest loans which are short term and hard to get. A lot of wheat has always been grown in somewhat marginal areas but they are getting more marginal with climate change.  Some of them are probably up the proverbial creek along with some cattle operations.  We export a huge proportion of agricultural production but if you believe we should not be self sufficient in food I think we will be in for big trouble.Many farmers do in fact transition from one form of farming to another.  Climate change is seeing a lot of prime lamb areas turn to cropping.  There is less wool production.  Good/prime farming land is being dug up for coal.  I think we have a problem.  Farmers are smarter than you think.It has not been destroyed Rae - wool production has declined because demand has declined.  Fat lamb production has declined because of climate change.  You may have noticed that lamb prices have increased considerably.  Despite all that our farmers are more productive than ever notwithstanding droughts and frosts.Yet another clear and concise explanation of the situation from Ian Verrender.It is a rare thing that you suddenly need the facts before deciding where you stand on this Ben.  Can't bring yourself to say that Abbott is being mean and tricky and nasty and can't afford it.  What rubbish.  Why should they also lose leave entitlements?  Honestly!You've said that three times now.  Lambie was a soldier and probably knows what she is talking about but you don't believe her obviously.  I'd suggest that the CPI would be a reasonable increase.  I know that they get $150 loading per day while fighting overseas.  Still Ben the Lawyer and logical in the same sentence is yet another oxymoron.PS for you Ben - you can find all the pay rates on the Defence website or just Yahoo ADF pay rates.  Rates are shown for everyone from Trainees up and what they get after 1 through to 10 years' service.  It's very informative and interesting to peruse.  They received a 2.5% increase last year.The debt with me in charge would be very small because I wouldn't abolish taxes or go to wars just for starters.  I'd be a bit tough and very fair.  In fact, I'd be bloody brilliant !Yes, the NZ tax system is not quite what some people think it is cracked up to be.  Australia has far more scope for equitable tax revenue of all kinds.  The focus on the GST is lazy and wrong headed.  The poor will always pay more but that of course suits the 'Liberal' way.  Other aspects of NZ are of course admirable - no fools rushing in there.The few women who do have an alcohol problem and become pregnant already are in need of help.  It is most likely that they and their partner are both addicts and pretty well 'out of it'.  Criminalising that behaviour is not the answer.Well written Jonathan but I see no hope while we have Abbott &amp; Co in charge and in parliament.  They are not up to it regardless of Abbott' words 'mature debate' because coming from his it's an oxymoron.What has bigotry got to do with being anti-Abbott?  Just wildly throwing words around now?  Most of us know that Abbott lacks maturity in pretty well everything he says and does as he proved he won't debate matters let alone maturely for 4 years prior to winning government.  No tax debate should begin with just the GST.Your interest rate figure is total rubbish Geoff.  That was under Howard and we had recessions under Menzies and Fraser/Keating.  No one engineers or wants a recession, the darn things just happen.Equally absurd that you do not understand that it is not the job of any police spokesman to explain Government policy which happens to be full of holes and has little clarity.  Howard policised the AFP and now Abbott/Brandis is doing it again.  Sensible people find it very worrying.Al - have you gone bananas in this matter, or what?  The only perfectly sensible thing is for any law to be very clear and not open to interpretation,If Gillard or Rudd were doing what Brandis has (using the police) you would be screaming blue murder.I see little or no similarity but I do well recall Howard et al's use of the naval top staff in the children overboard lie.  When the naval chief later corrected matters he was conveniently ignored.  I might add we also have had Morrison grossly misusing military/naval people to a point where I have been screaming.  Poor old Rudd just had the navy confirm that towing boats back was dangerous.  Seems since then that the navy just carries out its orders from an MP who provide millions for special life boats.The only mythologising comes from the Liberals who continue to tell lies and gross distortions.  Whitlam was not keen on the South Vietnamese because, I think, he saw them as part of a corrupt government with whom Menzies sided as part of his reds under the beds/yellow peril.  The Vietnam war was a civil war.  However, in the end many thousands of Vietnam 'asylum seekers' came here, welcomed by Fraser who did not deem them illegals.  The 'loans' affair was just talk - it never came to anything other than wild headlines in Murdoch's papers.  Inflation and unemployment figures are grossly exaggerated and like the GFC it seems that according to the Liberals the Global Oil Crisis never happened either.  Gough had a surplus every year in government and did not leave debt.  His legacy will never be matched.  His achievements are too numerous to list here.Actually supply was not blocked, it was threatened to be blocked.No, we got the dismissal before it got to that point.  Up to that point it was not voted on.Fraser saw the light quite a long time ago.  He's become particularly reasonable and he always had good sympathy for asylum seekers and has every right to speak up when he wants to.Your mob said the complete opposite when you accused Gillard of knifing Rudd.It's a workplace entitlement.  Everyone else gets a parental leave payment at a flat rate if their employer offers nothing.No TC - they are funded out of the Education Department, out of taxation and out of the Medicare extra levy.In that case absolutely nothing is funded beyond three years - not the ADF, not the fighter jets, not the roads, not the hospitals and not even parliament.Victorians are different scupundi.  They know that Abbott's budget is totally shonky, that the deficit and debt are increasing and that Abbott's has no idea what 'invigorating the federation' means.  Abbott is just grabbing more power, taking away your precious freedoms (Big Brother indeed) and wasting billions everywhere one looks.  Napthine should have stayed in the vet business.Nup, not at all.  Abbott is the Worst Ever by a long shot.It is just a very bad idea, a very lazy idea and calling for a 'mature' debate is a pathetic move to try to make himself sound sincere.  Ben, this from Tony Abbott who just abolished a 'great big tax on everything' (the price on carbon) and now wants a 'great bigger tax on everything' (the GST) as well as another 'ever increasing' tax on a tax on petrol.   I see a problem, a giant contradiction and a liar pretending he has an 'idea'.I just jumped to the only conclusion.  I doubt that Tony Abbott would include in the debate the abolition of the GTS.  You're getting desperate in your responses Ben because you are making no sense at all now.I call that BS Ben and you know it.  Anyway there is nothing reasonable being said or done by Abbott and his mob.  You're all still ranting and raving and repeating old slogans and blaming Labor for anything and everything.  Why didn't you come clean with your opinion on the Medical Research Fund during the discussions earlier this year on the stupid Budget?There is one ex Liberal leader with the maturity - John Hewson.  There are one or two other MPs still living - Robert Hill and Ian Viner.I'm certainly not joining any Team led by Tony Abbott.  He's just playing games and he's not even a real grown up let alone mature.Australia does have a population policy.  It is have babies as you wish (and we'll pay you and give you more money), die one way or another, 150,000-200,000 migrants allowed in each year, up to half a million can come in on 457 visas, and no asylum seekers shall live here.  The policy can be adjusted at any time.This statement "While we are at it, let's stay with the Keating theme and head back to 1985 and the introduction of negative gearing as a concession to the introduction of capital gains tax. The ATO's 2011-2012 statistics show that this little sweetener was worth about $13.8 billion in expenditure."   is WRONG.  Keating quarantined negative gearing in 1985.  He did not introduce it.The price of land with a house in Sydney and Melbourne is out of kilter with everything.  A million dollars plus for a very average house which would have sold for $60,000 30 years ago or thereabouts.  Those prices flowing on to residential prices in outer suburban areas even though the size of the block of land has halved.  If a huge majority of the population want to live in the capital cities they are stuck with paying outrageous prices.  Decentralisation is part of the solution and all governments have to do is share the locations of its service offices and gain the flow on effect.I know all about it.  I live in the Albury/Wodonga area.  The first national growth centre i.e. decentralisation.  Trouble was it took a long time to get one office here which was a Taxation Office.  When it comes down to it they all just give it lip service and put in the too hard basket.Those you name are just there to be occasional token lefty balance.  Fairfax is balanced but it too has its long standing Right/Liberal voices in the form of some of its long standing regular writers and the weekly rants from Vanstone et al.    PS I think Paul was stuck use the word Menzies because the twerps who followed him were all part of the Menzies era.  The exception being Gorton who then got knifed.Keating had style with his humour and it was not nasty put down rot.  Menzies had a touch of that.  Whitlam had it too.  Most current and past Liberals have no sense of humour except to laugh at their own non-jokes.Exceptional good luck - a mining boom, no GFC, no global crisis.  Then all pissed up against the wall with too many tax cuts and nearly zero infrastructure spending.  Menzies never had surpluses, Whitlam had three.The Asian crisis was short lived and had absolutely no effect on Australia.  Costello did nothing and rightly did a wait and see.  The Dot Com bubble had no effect on Government whatsoever - just that a lot of foolish share investors lost money.  Peter you are looking for things which never existed.Barry is wrong on the excise on petrol.  The problem and the inequity of its continuing was because of the GST under Howard.  We had a tax on a tax on petrol.  We still do.  But at least one of them stopped automatically going up and forcing the other to also increase the price of petrol.  It is insane for Abbott to reintroduce the indexation of excise and apply that revenue solely to build more roads.We've had enough income tax reductions and changes to last us for quite a while.  The excise measure was initially touted as a debt and deficit reduction measure as was the GP co-payment and neither actually do that at all.  It's all BS.  It doesn't matter if the Medicare levy does not cover all health costs otherwise what is the point of paying income tax.  Income tax is there to pay for lots of stuff including politicians' salary.  If you want user pays for everything then income tax would have to be halved or just abolished.  Putting excise to public transport and not roads makes a lot of sense.  More roads just fill up and need constant maintenance and create the vicious circle.You can stick with your version Wave2 but a cherry picked one does not cut the mustard.  I don't think GST ever applies to any loan but it does apply to the cost of the house, every electricity and gas bill, telephone bill, all your furniture and household goods.  The flat rate 10% GST put up the cost of living by a huge amount (the 'carbon tax' by contrast put living costs up by a piddling amount).  The old wholesale system did not have 50 different levels for the one thing but it did tax more progressively which is a good thing.  The GST hits lower income people much more than the better off and it taxes things which were never taxed such as your power bills and all services such as plumbers, electricians.   It did in fact make a huge difference and I still hate the thing.Clete - Abbott did pretty well say No to everything Labor wanted to do. The fact that legislation was passed was due to the Independents.  Basic house keeping matters usually do receive support from all sides.  Everything that mattered was opposed and ridiculed by Abbott &amp; Co.Peris clearly stole nothing, NOTHING.  There is no question to be answered.Peris was not in politics and was not a Senator at the time.  It was all to do with athletics and she put forward a proposal which was agreed on and followed through successfully.  Just another Liberal smear campaign gbe.  Your lot excel at that and nothing else.Yes, she made that statement after I wrote my comment.  Either way it is a sensational headline to sell papers as well as a smear campaign.  I'm still right Alpha.Spurr was a political appointment and is clearly biased against the interests of a good curriculum.  That was in the public interest and his emails were not private.I've responded Graham but the mods have not followed through.Seems the House Rules aren't always applied Rhonda.Students don't 'float' along at university Freddie.  They are all paying plenty already and work their guts out at casual employment at the same time.I think the solution to that is clear.  Universities should stop offering any course to students whose score is below 80.  Low entry scores actually reflect the demand for the course but students think it means the course is easy when in fact it is often difficult and beyond their capabilities.  For those still keen to go to university they might be better advised to wait until they are a mature age entrant or do another year to gain a higher score, i.e. put more effort in to prove themselves capable.Bollocks Roger.  Tony Abbott once said a carbon tax was a good way to tackle climate change.  So what - neither ever happened.Yeh but - I have a friend whose husband wound up doing all that but a bit too late.  He did have a big problem and he died 5 months after getting the blood test.Remember it is roughly 40 cents a week for six months and then it goes up again every six months.  The author is suggesting what the Greens have already suggested and Abbott has rejected.  It's a stupid and incorrect article by Richard Denniss.There was no 'prolifgate spending' under Labor but there sure is a lot of now for those who do not need it and for more bloody roads we don't need.  They just fill up.What is missing from the article and the discussion Ben is how come one cattle farming family got themselves into such a mess.  Surely the Brett family could have exported their cattle after the ban was lifted and when Indonesia opened the door.  Or they might have found other buyers.  Having all your eggs in the one basket is always risky.   I think a lot of the live export trade is opportunistic but can see that diversification in the top end is unlikely.  I'm just wondering what other farmers think of the trade halt with Russia and with Russia's kick back.  There are people suffering because of that too.  Where will it all end?Well that's your version and I guess you'll stick to it Paula.Yes, the inflation figure was not reflected in my cost of living at the time.  The rent I paid on a flat in Waverton did not go up, my salary did not jump, a flagon of wine remained at around $1.  The oil shortage created problems but they weren't insurmountable.  Where I worked money was being borrowed at rates between 6 and 8%.  It was well after '75 that they hit 10%.  It was during the Fraser years that inflation well and truly took off.  Oddly enough I never blamed any political party - stuff just happened except that under the Libs nothing much of good for society ever happens.I think you must have been in a parallel universe Ursus.  His Ministers were in fact good.  You're doing your own rewriting and it is shameful - just look at your own 'pygmies' in charge now.Not rewriting any of that history custard.  Reinstating the facts which have been changed by the Libs at the time and ever since.  I'd love to see how the Lib/Nats go without massive support from the MSM and the CIA.The economic record, i.e. the facts, tell us that AT is correct and that the Lib/Nats are the poorest economic managers every time.It's called reinstating the true history clete.  Your mob have been busy rewriting it and their own ever since 1972.Thank you for writing this John Hewson.  Can you please keep this up and apply as much pressure as you can for sanity to prevail.  I hope Shorten can get some real fire in his belly over this.All true Tiresias and yet this fear and crap is not new in some countries, particularly USA.  I'm reading It Can't Happen Here published in 1935 - it's a blueprint for the insanity of capitalism.Ben Pobjie is spot on about Prof Spurr and I agree with him about Barry Humphries (I never liked him much and over the years even less).  Prof Spurr is the last person I'd consult on a curriculum review and it speaks volumes that Kevin Donnelly, selected by Minister for Education (!) Pyne, picked Spurr.   It is all very appalling and all of these guys should be sacked.To your words "Kerry, most of the things Gough did were already either in the pipe-line already OR had been implemented and Whitlam did some tinkering around the edges." I say bollocks.  Making up your own myths is pathetically desperate.Somebody did the country a service by showing us the entirely inappropriate appointment of the Prof to the Curriculum Review.  The Review was never needed at this time and was already tainted with the appointment of Kevin Donnelly.Gerard if you want to understand the game you will have to subject yourself to watching some hours of it although I must say the best bits are the little bites given on the news.  Tragically I do understand the game but most of the time it bores me to sleep hence I watch as little as possible.  It was the reason we bought a second tele.  Ignore rehabilitator's advice.  Cricket is a bit like golf - more enjoyable if you actually play it.As most on the Drum would know, I am a lefty and long time Labor supporter.  However I never saw Kim Beazley as a winner.  He was way too ineffective and had little real fight in him or 'oomph'.  I was appalled when he stood shoulder to shoulder with Howard over using the defence forces on Tampa.  He was a nice bloke but not a leader.Gough Whitlam was the best and the greatest PM ever.  The best years of my life.  He was, contrary to what Cassidy says, an economic visionary whose government still managed to have three surpluses.More rubbish - that policy was everyone's at the time and it was not introduced by a Labor government.  Chipping away at a policy is not the same as abolishing it.  Liberal governments actually never do the good hard yards.  How do you usually behave at a funeral - surely if you don't know or love the person you should keep clear - well away.Don't speak ill of the dead by writing lies Walter.  The Whitlam governments were the most inspiring of all time and delivered so much to everyone after 23 years of dull and fear mongering years (reds under beds and the yellow peril - sound familiar?).Apparently the entire Parliament agrees with me.  I was born in 1949 so I can make correct comparisons from Menzies on.   Gough was indeed the greatest PM ever.But they do all the time Gregory - every time they see a GP and in fact every time they have surgery in a private hospital, or have an accident and automatically wind up in emergency.TNBB - writing lies doesn't help you distort reality.  Everything was 'original and unique' in Australia then and they were the very things which Menzies and the following Lib PMs wouldn't touch with a 100 foot barge pole.  No such breaches existed - you can't rewrite history or make up your own dumb facts.Always popular TB.  Don't comment when you know nothing.  He won two elections and transformed the country for the better.Tory Boy that was the Howard government penalising anyone over $50,000 who didn't take out private insurance.  Just how old are you to have no correct memory of everything you write on.  Wrong all the time.That is a lie.  That was a Howard government 'initiative'.The majority are not always right Bev.  Who today thinks capital punishment or going to war in Iraq were good policies?  Just how many people do you think discussed that T shirt matter apart from the callers to shock jock radio?Yes, it is simply that he is a fool in a government full of them which is why he can't see the problem.  On the other hand it does seem that Liberals have a very sick and unfunny so-called sense of humour.Not even a little toenail's worth.  Cormann tries to insult Shorten and insults half the population.So insulting half the population is just so humourous?You memory does not go back quite far enough.  Howard arranged for the establishment and opening of both Nauru and Manus.  Labor closed them both then got the nervous nellies and re-opened them.Well that is your assessment Ms Mathewson but you have not relied on facts for all your arguments.  Rudd said he would get rid of the 'carbon tax' and go straight to an ETS.  No one asked the government to send health workers to fight Ebola without the necessary safeguards in place.  The problem is that the government is doing nothing to ensure infected health workers can come home - the 30 hour flight is the excuse and it is all too hard for them.  I think that is bunkum.There was a program on the TV very recently which explained how and why the warming had transferred to the oceans. Warming oceans are just as disastrous as warming air temperature, possibly worse.So the bastions of free enterprise are really closet socialists.  We need help and money when things go wrong but leave us alone the rest of the time and get your mitts off our business plans because government regulation is so bad.  Ha.I think you'll find they just cleared the land to make a passable track.  Then they formed local government to start properly building those tracks into the roads, starting with the most used ones.  The land was surveyed and routes set aside for public roads.  Farmers paid the council money (rates) to keep the whole thing going.  Bit like a co-operative.  Also called society.  The people themselves formed the various levels of government.  We are them and they are us.Abbott embarrasses himself with no help from the media.  Whatever 'shirt front' means to you is one thing but it has a number of meanings so PM Abbott should choose his words with more care.  After a day of deserved ridicule he refused to utter those words again and stuck by his new found word (repeatedly just to be sure we understood).I don't believe the money in its investments is taxpayer money.  I'm sure they will do just as nicely with a different portfolio.  Blown out of proportion all right and Cowan continues with it by ending with possibly very stupid assumptions.It is not taxpayer money.  They can't claw back.They aren't.The assumptions many make are so very very annoying.You can be both but you of course don't have to.  Australia is multi-cultural whether you like it or not.   I don't think the anti multi-cultural people have a clue what the phrase means.  Do they truly think we are mono-cultural?Really Peter of Perth.  I think it is the right who mistake multi-culturalism as ghettos and who mix it up with religions.  I know about the origin of chilli - same goes for spuds, tomatoes and a lot of other things.  There is nothing artificial going on Peter and your rather silly discussion of a fact of life here has been going on since the 70s.  In the meantime we have become more multi-cultural.Attitudes have little to do with culture.  Our own government right now is tossing away hard won rights.A lot of countries have changed their flag.  Some made a new flag when they become independent after all that colonisation which went on a few centuries ago.  I'd love to see that Union Jack in the corner go.  Canada opted for a unique flag and New Zealand is considering doing the same.  Meanwhile we are stuck with a dual personality flag.As always omit the rest of the sentence.  When you bring that up - referring to one specific thing.  The Abbott government approach to climate change is truly shameful.It is called climate change.  Meanwhile the oceans are doing a lot of warming.  The temperature graph is still trending upwards.The ABC and the left wingers are not denouncing this country.  Comments here on the Drum are not happy with the current government policies.  For the previous 6 years all you Righties denounced everything happening under Labor.  Can you see that you have a problem TOJ.  The Right are not always right and the Left is not always wrong.Well clearly Flanagan can say what he wants just the same as you do Dugong.  On the 'world stage' there are many Aussies who are ashamed that Australia is now seen as a complete cop out on climate change and that tends to translate that they are ashamed to call themselves Australian on the world stage.  I don't like how Abbott &amp; Co represent Australia on these global matters because they make us look utterly stupid and backward.   You're doing the usual contortions to excuse the Right's dreadful behaviour during the Rudd/Gillard years.  There's no problem with my argument in response to TOJ.  And Dugong, try saying Richard Flanagan and not 'the person in question'.I don't believe the ABC does any such thing.  Here is an opinion piece to which you are free to state your opinion, i.e. speak against or for whatever the matter.  On education it has put out every piece of tosh written by Donnelly, on climate change it has put every piece of anti-climate change garbage written by various fools including most of the IPA.  Now, on this subject of flag on T shirts and what they said etc maybe you can write your own piece telling us how good such expressions are (it's a brand new topic!).  I happen to think that shirt message is actually very nasty and says a lot more than you realise.It is everybody's Frank.  If you don't like discussing politics and topical matters perhaps you ought to stick with the gardening section. (But of course you do like discussing politics - for censorship you ought to check out The Australian and count the comments from the Left - if you can fine one or two I'll be surprised.)Who says this particular pile of dosh the Uni holds is taxpayer money.  I don't think it is at all.No, I am not saying that - don't you and your lot get tired of putting words into people's mouths.  It shows you know nothing about how universities operate.  They do get funds from various sources for research, long term stuff etc.  They invest it to maintain its value or grow its value so they can do more with it.Taxpayers' money it is.  It is not coming out of the personal pockets of Liberal politicians even though you and they act as though it is.Their investments are not taxpayer money.The future is renewal energy Dugong.  You're going to miss the boat if you keep your money in the same old stuff.  Times are changing whether you like it not.  Even the sheep industry has changed.Clutching at non-existent straws again.  Anyone would think they just dumped $200Billion
in shares instead of a few thousand.It still does Roger and by the tone of the rest of your comment your hatred for the Greens, the planet and all things good is completely bonkers.But Paula, the Lib/Nats/Right started it with a vicious vengeance the moment Julia Gillard became PM.  I don't follow Twitter so I have no idea what goes on there and I wouldn't bother checking it out for sexism.  When I hear Alan Jones asking for Julie Bishop to be put in a chaff bag and thrown to sea or a Labor MP describing her as deliberately barren I'll see your point of view.John1, this article is about sexism in the current and recent political setting.  I stand my ground on this and if anyone is blinkered it is most definitely you and you continue to fail in comprehension.  Throw as many insults at me as you like - it helps to prove my point.In this case it most certainly was started by the Right and it began as I said the day Julia Gillard became PM.  This topic is not generally about sexism, it is about sexism in the current political sphere.  You don't like hearing the truth of the matter.With the Abbott government in charge what you say in defence is in fact total nonsense.  They've made many changes but all of them are for the worse.  Your talk about Senate obstruction is pretty hysterical given Abbot's record while in Opposition.  Clearly Liberals have no decent memories and thrive on hypocrisy.  John1 your comment has zero legitimacy.No I don't firthy and your inability to read and comprehend is extraordinary.  Repeal the 'carbon tax' but replace it with an ETS was the promise.  Abbott offers no ETS replacement so of course they didn't support the repeal.  No excuses firthy - you just have to deal with your incompetent bunch of imbeciles in charge now who are making a right mess of everything with or without your help.I wonder why Ian didn't explain the Aug/Sept figures.  The ABS used, as I understand it, the same system but with less questions as in previous surveys because many respondents were opting out of completing the survey.I'm not at all sure Graham H.  I think they did away with the follow up work on the survey respondents because of the staff shortages etc.  I know a bit about surveys and the need for complete information and the effort involved in getting responses.  It is not a simple matter.  But they did simplify it and the results threw up these inaccuracies.  It's a result of not enough staff.They don't.  I think it is in the vicinity of 50,000.It is complicated Dugong.  Also throw in the seasonal adjustment and the changes over the last 4 years.  Apparently there is no longer an adjustment for those contentious months.  But in the end I'm not all that bothered.  They're having a review.But firthy it does put the light on the hypocrisy of those who love the cuts.  If you look at Hockey's budget figures he reckons every little bit counts right down to saving $200,000 on Stoma work.  Enough to give one the s..ts.  Or the $9.6 Million on Eye examinations.I'll bite.  The Howard and Abbott governments.  They're on the road to ruin john1.  Economic imbeciles.Yes indeed Mr Verrender.  But will the government listen?  These cuts are leading to inefficiencies and stupid outcomes.  Those remaining and increasing numbers of very well paid managers are not the ones who actually do the real work.Paul, do you have an idea of the range, depth, detail and the entire gamut of data which is collated and how they get that data?  It is huge.  Computers don't operate themselves either.  ABS information is of enormous use to business of every kind and researchers and students, not forgetting governments.  How you manage to bring up 'a lazy union' is beyond reason.While Corporate corruption and collusion remains untouchable.Yes indeed rabbie.  Every day another announcement about security or concerns or about not having a tax to fund the 'mission'.  Watching the news or opinion discussions everything else seems off the menu.  It's all terrorists, possibilities, what ifs and more.  The contentious nasty aspects of the Budget which still remain to be resolved are off the radar.  It doesn't fool me but just how many are being reeled in is a worry.  It is not good and it is all way over the top.Doing contortions again gbe.  But we were going to get a price on carbon and that is what we got.  Don't you think it a tad odd that we have plenty of money (a spare billion) for war and extra security.  As you would surely have asked Labor - where's the money coming from?Wasn't he just using Brandis' own reasoning to offer an explanation.  I think you miss the subtlety.  Either way I don't agree.  There is no excuse.As does the hysterical stupidity in the MSM Realist.  Over the top and includes lies.  Green is spot on.Just a little different today.  People move around a lot, around the world etc.  We have lots of planes moving them around.An excellent speech from Ben Saul.  I agree with him in every respect.A good summary Mungo.  Material for the ABC to use for its hoped for 'at home and at work with Tony Abbott' to balance that rather unpleasant one on Julia and Tim.I'm certainly not a fan of Julie Bishop and the admiration you speak of comes from a joyous Liberal mob who exaggerate her work or so-called achievements.  But I think she would not receive anything like the abuse dished out to Julia Gillard.  Which right wing shock jocks do you think will treat her the way they did Gillard and since when did Labor ever abuse Bishop.  That said, I am sure she will never be PM because in the Liberal federal jurisdiction it will always be a job for a boy.I was discussing the article and Julie Bishop's future and you Roger are writing pure fantasy as to who had it easy in the recent past.I missed that - can you give me a reference TC - much appreciated.  Are there any more examples you can find or just make up?I forget very little and I know that internal party problems did not include any detractors calling Gillard vile names.  Stop writing rubbish.What attack from what leftist media?  Calm down and do note that the writer of this article was an advisor to John Howard.You should note that the piece is written by an independent opinion writer who was also advisor to the Liberal Prime Minister John Howard.  If you want to count the articles I suggest you start about 5 years ago and come back with your own biased results.I can read and count well gbe and your point about what is posted or not on the Drum is nonsense.  Your own score board gbe is very high.  I have days when I'm lucky to get one comment up (last week in particular) and occasionally I do well on one piece and nothing on another.  Peter Reith stopped writing for the Drum once his Libs won the election - he wrote glowingly of all your lot and disparagingly about anything Labor.  Your constant reference to ABC bias is getting very tiresome - it treats the government too kindly and you don't even notice.My answer has not come up gbe.  Here is a different answer - yes, there have been plenty but I do try to erase them from my mind.  There were few positive ones on Rudd or Gillard or anything Labor.  Your confusing the articles and the comments.  But what you must realise that it is usually the government which comes under greater scrutiny.  If you want total bias towards the LNP just go read The Australian or anything from News Corp.
APM, there is a word or two to describe your assessment of the author but they probably won't print them.  I'll try saying you are bonkers and totally wrong.  If anything Paula is reasonable - a hard thing to find among the Right.APM you are wrong, wrong and then some.  The Libs do nothing but instal their buddies into government jobs or to head review after review.  They do it in bucket loads and even chuck out Labor appointments just because they can.  At least Labor appointments are to people with knowledge and relevance - as opposed to Wilson's appointment to the Human Rights Commission, a body which he thinks should be abolished.The author has been (and may still be) a Liberal insider.  Dobbieb enjoying some character assassination while ignoring any faults on the Right side.  Julie Bishop a smiling and bland character - attributes?  maybe.I wrote that Beazley was from WA ages ago and it didn't get up.  Bob Hawke is not from the west.  I think he was born in a little village in South Australia.When you are the Government the news tends to be about the Government and what the Government is doing David.  If the ABC wrote more about Labor and the Greens you'd be complaining about that.  As it is the ABC gave little publicity to Labor policies during the Rudd/Gillard governments and no scrutiny of the then LNP policies while they were the Opposition.  It was all slogans and PR stunts.  I think you're well ahead.Jenny you are mistaking truth, facts and balance as Lefty bias.The Commercial Stations only respond to advertisers and that unfortunate portion of the population who love reality shows like X Factor, stuff renovating homes and cooking competitions and nothing else (except football).  The air waves are saturated with this stuff.  The ABC cannot be privatised - no one would buy it.That's one of the biggest loads of codswallop I've ever read.  Full of contradictions and crazy crazy statements.  Are you, in the end, saying it is wiser to spend money on wars?A Verrender article which will provide an excellent reference as we see how things unfold here and abroad over the next year.  Best to diversify I reckon.Those recommendations did no such thing, you're just trotting out the usual distortions so favoured by Libs and Abbott lovers.  This new legislation is way over the top and just the thing which you normally would rail against very loudly.  Johathan did write about the previous proposals.   PS:  it is getting hotter.I think they all multi-task Albo.Yes they CAN but they AREN'T !I've mentioned that the ABC tilts to the Right on a number of occasions.  The trouble with the Left is that it just takes the ABC as it comes even if the Insiders and Q &amp; A have too many rusted on Right/Conversatives idiots appearing regularly, I just put up with it.  The Right always whinge and whinge and lie.I've corrected myself but it has not come up.  I've mentioned on a number of occasions that it tilts to the right.  It does tilt to the right and investigations have proved that.  I want good discussion on everything.  The problem is that most from the Right are incapable of discussing anything properly.  They just yabber and repeat the same gumpf.  Whenever Q &amp; A has a pollie free evening the discussion is brilliant.TC I can't see how on earth you can say that if you actually watch Q &amp; A because everything you say is a load of hogwash and then some.  Go to their website and come back with the details of all those which fit your description of the program.  I know you won't find one but just have a go at backing yourself up with specifics.There'd be no news most days then and no Question Time and no appearances by Morrison or Pyne et al at the Press Club.  At least I'd stop swearing at the TV !They don't on both counts.  The ABC is so bloody balanced it leans to the right !  What Q &amp; A was stacked on the panel - you can go to their website and look it up (but you won't find it).  We know the composition of the audience.  Members so the public who wish to attend self select when they know what the thrust of the discussion will be, hence some special interest Muslims attended the other night just to seek some answers.  It's a great program in every respect, week in and week out.He didn't announce that.  He was talking about the expected population increase at a National Press Club speech.Although Red Rooster - some people never learn.  Look at John Howard and then compare with Malcolm Fraser.  We're just as likely to get a lot of silly old farts than wise ones.
