Good point Bill. The Australian media is over personalising the story until you would think Australia was the major player instead of just one of a number of countries involved. Reading the New York Time I was surprise to read over 170 victims were Dutch, I thought the largest group were Australian. On US news shows that are reporting on the issue I have yet to hear Australia mentioned in a major way. The PM's use of the term "Operation Bringing Them Home" and sending military personal smacks of posturing and jingoism. I also have not seen the Australian media report  that this is not a unique event. Both the US and the USSR have shot down commercial airliners through mistaken identity.Disclosure: former 60 a day smoker, abstinent for 22 years.

I am getting increasingly annoyed with this "death of a thousand cuts" attack on a legally produced and sold product.

If, and I tend to agree, tobacco is so dangerous, then let us bite the bullet and ban it as we do so many other products that are harmful to health.  (Except, strangely, that incredibly dangerous and mind altering drug that is the leading cause of violence in our society: alcohol).

If it is not so dangerous as to warrant banning, then leave it alone.

In my opinion, this dancing around the edges is a reflection of political cowardice.  Politicians can crow about how tough and how ethical they are when in reality they are wimping out.

Of course banning would need to be thought out, but government distribution of products to addicts will both give the industry something to do as it exits Australia and avoid the pain of abrupt withdrawal.

Having said that, I still occasionally catch a tendril of smoke and the old urge is back again.  But not enough to make me start again.

PS I did not quit because of the persistent Gov't hammering or the warnings of danger: in fact they tended to reinforce my attitude.  I gave up when I saw my 3 year daughter imitating my smoking with a pencil.  I was happy to take risks myself, but not to encourage my children to do so.

Perhaps that is the way to go: allow this generation to smoke but ensure that the next is smoke free.I am not sure that the failure of an attempt to ban a product 100 years ago in another country is a good example to use.

The USA of the 1920 no longer exists.

In addition, the motivation of the abolitionists put many offside: the emphasis on morality and religion meant that those who did not endorse either that morality or those religious beliefs felt no compulsion to obey what they saw as laws interfering in their rights.  (A view that has a lot to do with the current gun laws debate in the US, despite the constant cry that this is "stupidity" or "love of violence").

A ban based on health and public benefits would be far more likely to succeed, particularly as smoking is generally seen as a negative.

No doubt a ban on tobacco products might lead to some smuggling and criminal involvement.  It might serve as a replacement for smuggling immigrants.  But if a Gov't program of licenced distribution of tobacco products to registered addicts was introduced, much of the incentive would be destroyed.  Keep the price low and the quality high and hit offenders hard and it would work.

But that isn't my main point.  All I am saying is that if the product is evil, why not make it illegal?  Why pussyfoot around for 50 years, allowing more to take it up?  Stop it now.

In other words, get our politicians to make a stand on something other than vilifying the unemployed.Alcohol companies?

I would love to try feeling sorry for them if they had to fund domestic violence clinics, psychiatric homes, women's refuges, intensive care wards, emergency wards and street cleaning.

Let alone paying compensation to those whose lives have been ruined by their legal products.

I admit it: if out on Friday night I would rather see a chain smoker than someone who has just drunk 10 standard drinks.

Yet one is publicly humiliated, the other a social darling." ... more than 50% of hospital beds were occupied by people with smoking-related conditions ..."

I find that statistic very hard to accept, unless of course "smoking related condition" is taken to mean anything to do with health at all.

ie a heart attack or a cancer suffered by a smoker being classed a "smoking related condition", regardless of any lack of demonstrated connection.

I hope we haven't gone the way of claiming everything bad is a result of the thing we dislike eg earthquakes result of AGW.Please explain to me why using more expensive power sources is not a "job killer"?  If I must pay more to make whatever I am selling, I risk being undercut or just as bad, selling at a loss.

And since when has the PM "destroyed" the renewable energy industry?  When he removed subsidies?  

Surely after all these years wind farms and solar energy panels can stand on their own feet?

You may as well say that by not subsidising blacksmiths, the government destroyed the horse-shoe industry.Safe injecting houses could also serve as safe smoking houses for marijuana and tobacco products. They could also serve alcohol.  We could place 3 metre razor wire around these places with armed guards and floodlights.

Blood and urine tests before the inmates allowed out.

The rest of the population could then go about their business knowing that most of the dangerous members of society were elsewhere.

I see no reason why someone who wants to affect his or her reasoning ability should be allowed to wander freely in public.  They can do as they wish, as long as safely sequestered from society.

Extreme?  Definitely.  But not hypocritical.  I dislike them all equally.When did Israel drop a bomb on a school?

A few shells may have hit schools and some more have landed nearby.

I have seen no evidence that a bomb has hit a school.  The Israelis claim that some of the damage attributed to them is in fact Hamas rockets that misfired.  (10% of all Hamas rockets land in Gaza.).  We don't know: Hamas restricts access to such sites. 

Of course most media don't care: they are quite prepared to repeat Hamas news releases.

I noticed just now that an ABC news report said "Israel alleges terrorist rockets fired in breach of truce".  No need to "allege" when it states "Israel targets schools" or "Israel bombs hospital"."It would be totally without any logic or reason to accept that decade after decade a population would just calmly accept being squeezed out of existence. "

How are the Gazans being "squeezed out of existence"?

As soon as they stop attacking their neighbours they will have all restrictions lifted.  Problem solved.

PS The requirement is "proportional force".  Not proportional in the sense of 1 dead for 3 dead, but proportional in the sense of sufficient to address the problem.  As the problem is thousands of rockets fired over months, a two week campaign to eradicate the ability to launch these is reasonable.  That Hamas deliberately places the launchers and stockpiles in civilian areas is unfortunately the reason for the high death toll, not the Israeli defensive tactics.Seems reasonable to me: why waste time prosecuting someone who acted in self defence when the real perpetrator has been identified?" ... just as horrific as the idea that Muslims should be forced to give up their identity to avoid prejudice."

I assume by "identity" you mean "religion" - the two are not the same.

Of course no Muslim should be forced to give up their religion: apostasy is a death sentence in Islam."The issue as I see it is that if you express an opinion such as "I think Israel's demolition of Gaza and the killing of 2,000 civilians is simply wrong" then you are suddenly an anti-Semite"

The issue is why the emphasis on Israel's actions?  Why is Israel's self defence the centre of world attention?  Thousands of civilians are still being killed in Syria and Iraq - with no attempt to hide the fact that they are the target.  The Congo still sees the slaughter of thousands.  

One has to ask - what is it about the Gaza events that makes them so important?  And regrettably, it is because it involves Israel.  Arabs massacring Arabs is OK: but we cannot have Jews killing Arabs in self defence.

That is why there are accusations of anti-Semitism: the disproportionate response.And who provides the pictures of children and houses?

The instigators of the war.  Hamas is deciding the images you see, just as it provides the statistics that are unhesitatingly accepted by the media.

Perhaps if you saw pictures of and articles about  Israeli children terrified after sleeping in bomb shelters for months, never being allowed more than 30 seconds from a secure location, you might have a different opinion.

Strangely, the ABC has not run a program on the psychological problems that such cruel and inhumane treatment might cause.  Perhaps if they were refugees it might."Throws stones"

A good try at mitigating the problem.

More than half Israel spending night after night in bomb shelters is not because a few stones are being thrown.  Thousands of rockets packed with explosives and shrapnel are being fired.

If someone is firing lethal weapons at my house for months, I think I am entitled to fire back.

The world should be congratulating Israel on its patience, and its minimising the damage caused to remove the threat to its citizens.  Of course, no civilians at all would have been killed had Hamas not acquired the rockets, fired the rockets, fired them from civilian areas and stored them in civilian areas.

PS The tunnels built would have made perfect bomb shelters: pity Hamas thinks they would be wasted if used that way.Why do you think the Arabs were in Palestine 2,000 years ago?  They only invaded in about 600-700AD."The more we, as society, sacrifice liberty in the preference of security, the less communal our community will be."


So sacrificing liberty for security is wrong. But from all the cheers re the retaining of S18 of the Racial Discrimination Act, sacrificing liberty to stop upsetting people is fine.

What a strange world we live in.  We rail against laws that allow the government to see who we spoke to 6 months ago (not even what we said) but we can be prosecuted for questioning the background and motivation of those claiming benefits intended for those who are disadvantaged.

Never mind that the info re our telephone and other records is  apparently commercially saleable and that it is to be used to detect one of the hardest of all crimes to successfully prosecute.

That liberty must be protected.  

But liberty to expose those availing themselves to racially based benefits is denied.I note you don't dispute my statement. So I take you accept that security rates below upsetting people.

As for your comment: there is no way that a case for slander could have been made, and the complainants (or their legal advisers) knew that.

Only by playing the race card could they win anything, and then only with a judge who stretched the law to its limits.Oh dear, once more into the breach ...

The decision was not based on any "significant distortions of fact".  (Why the quotes?  I don't recall the phrase being used in the decision).

There were a few errors, but they were pretty irrelevant to the main argument.  The key point was that it was the "tone" of the article.

If you are happy that a judge can determine (objectively?) the "tone" of your comments and by this convict you, then fine by me.  Permit me to differ.  (I have been told that this makes me a racist - another indication of the decline of the word).The rule of law is the principle that the law applies to all equally and everyone is subject to due process. It is a key principle and I do not believe we should let fear make us weaken it. The argument that "I have nothing to hide" is to deny why democracy and rule of law came into being in the first place. Power corrupts if not checked and balance. In WA the cases of John Button and Darryl Beamish remind us that even with presumption of innocence mistakes are made. We let terrorist win when we weaken our high standards because of them. If a case can be made that someone is a terrorist let it be proven in court under our long standing principles.
I agree, read David Marr's "Panic" for an insight into fear in Australian public life and policy. It is an approach/tactic that is timeless.I have things to hide, nothing illegal, but at the same time nothing the government needs to know about.You endorse the media being able to ask questions about people obtaining benefits intended for others.

I presume then you support the repeal of legislation that prevented Andrew Bolt asking questions about persons claiming benefits intended for the disadvantaged, even though in no way disadvantaged themselves.

Anything else would be hypocritical.

There is of course the minor matter that Mr Bolt did not steal or receive stolen information.  Ms Bacon could write as much about Mr Abbot's daughter as she liked, making as many suppositions as she liked.  Mr Bolt could not even raise the topic.

Can you see the difference?  Ms Bacon enjoys free speech, but her source has been punished, not for what she said, but how she obtained it.  Mr Bolt, however, was punished for what he said.  (Please - no more stupid "He made factual errors!" Go and read the decision.)
Of course, that is the way to world peace.

We should have let Germany invade Poland.  Then France.  Then ... 

What a better world that would have been.

Remember John Donne "No man is an island .."

I think you prefer the well known Neville Chamberlain, who questioned why British soldiers should die for far away Czechoslovakia.  Far easier to just let a dictator have it.  that worked well.

What a wonderful way to exist: ignore any injustice that doesn't involve you.  How about your neighbour?  The next town?  Your children?Of course, but I support real help.

Rather than treating the symptoms (refugees), treat the problem (persecution in the native land).  Then the refugees, who we are often assured would prefer to stay at home, could do so.

that may require sacrifice on our part, but I am willing to do so to actually improve things, rather than exacerbate the problem.

And of course, I can distinguish between someone being persecuted and someone who would simply like a more material comfort.No, splod1, sending foreign aid does not help.  Sending foreign aid to a country will not help those being persecuted,.

Aid may reduce the number of economic migrants, I'll give you that.

But persecution usually requires the removal of the persecutor from a position of power, not sending them money.

Something a bit harder than voting to send someone's taxes to someone else.  Something that requires guts and tenacity and being prepared to suffer yourself for others.He was done for his "tone" which the judge said showed it was not "in good faith".

Please be accurate.

The factual errors were admitted to be immaterial.

Why lie about the decision?Somehow I missed the outcry about the seizure of tens of thousands of legally obtained firearms because of the risk that a handful of Australians might use them to endanger others.

Apparently that reduction in rights (to ownership, to enjoyment, to security) was OK.  Even though it was devastating to some.

But keeping a record of phone and internet use is apparently too steep a price to pay for security for Mr Green.

How can we solve this riddle?

I hesitate to put forward a solution, but perhaps Mr Green and his supporters did not own guns or have any interest and therefore were wholeheartedly behind the sacrifice of others for the good of all.

When it comes to the most minimal reduction in their own rights, they go ballistic.

Though there is the apparent belief of Mr Green that this "terrorism" threat is merely a device for the evil Mr Abbot to begin to reduce Australia to a nation of serfs.  Not far from where I write this is a memorial to a group of young Australians blown up in the name if Islam.  I knew some, know their parents.  I don't see the threat as minimal.The article made a point that all Australian's were to lose rights because of a risk from very few.

You believe all Australians should have lost their rights because Martin Bryant (one person) misused his rights.

I am not saying you are wrong.  I just think that losing a tiny part of my right to privacy is a very small price to pay to monitor those who would misuse their rights.So you have no problem with commercial companies holding this information, but only the government.  That there are no safeguards on commercial use you accept, but regulated government use for the protection of society you refuse to contemplate.

And you support taking away guns from everyone, because, you argue, it reduces the murder rate.

The first reveals a somewhat alarming view of reality, the second would require some evidence.  While I am aware of reports showing fewer gun suicides, I am not aware of any claims that gun seizures have reduced the murder rate.  Less multiple homicides maybe, but they are very rare anywhere.  (Including, you may be surprised to know, the USA.)

PS I don't and never have owned a gun.  I am not and never have been in the pay of the NRA, Big Oil, the "Jewish Lobby" or Big Pharma.  Just trying to beat the crazies to the punch." ... silent forms of racism are pervasive and damaging."

And when you legislate to stop people discussing such things, you get the silent form which will remain and fester.

I simply cannot understand why people prefer to drive such feelings underground.

Racism is a foolish and easily confronted ideology: let the few racists we have speak and identify themselves and we can rip them to ribbons (metaphorically of course).

Instead we have a society that calls Tony Abbot a racist and misogynist simply because some people disagree with his views.  I have never heard him make a statement that is either.

We have a columnist hauled into court for questioning the  allocation of scarce resources intended for the needy, while "whites" are portrayed as the root of all evilIf I stated that all members of some "race" were evil, I could be prosecuted under the Racial Discrimination Act.

I feel sure you must know that.

As it is, I am only allowed to think it, and perhaps discuss it with those of similar mind.  What a recipe for building up resentment and fury.

I suppose I must, as this is the Drum, hasten to add that I believe no such thing.  As I don't think such a thing as "race" exists, it would be hard to believe.  That I don't think aspects of behaviour such as being "evil" are hereditary (as opposed to cultural) it would be impossible to believe.What scandal?  And what was there to learn?

Scrutinise the background of those employed by NSA?

PS According to the Drum ethos, war is the ultimate evil.  Praising those who willing go to war is not allowed.

It is better to allow whole nations to suffer under a dictator than to do something about it.

What a nightmare we face!

Though I notice that Mr Barns does not suggest a solution to the  problem.

Perhaps he is not worried about zealots retuning "home" (to the safe haven whose inhabitants and culture they despise) to continue their war against humanity.

But at least we can sleep comfortably in our beds knowing that the Racial Discrimination Act is safe.

Nobody will be able to question the motives of those claiming to be members of an ethnic group that some hope will have advantages enshrined in the Constitution.Are you reading, watching and hearing the same MSM as me?

It is dominated by the "outrages" carried out by Israelis.  That Israel has agreed to and kept 8 cessations of hostilities is never mentioned.  Nor that every one has been breached by Hamas.  Death tolls prepared by Hamas have been accepted without question: every statement by Israel is labelled as "alleged".  "Civilians" are apparently anyone killed by Israel.

I have only heard one discussion of the military difficulties of dogging out a determined and well armed foe from a highly populated area: the rest assume that any error is a deliberate attack.  No-one states the truth: that the use of ground troops by Israel is evidence that it is prepared to sacrifice the lives of its own soldiers to minimise civilian casualties.  

As for the behaviour of the press: it has been a disgrace.  Those in Gaza are censored yet never mention it.  Those few brave enough to photograph Hamas operating in proximity to schools, hospitals etc are threatened into silence.  No access is allowed to sites that Hamas deems not to be reported.

I could go on, but anyone who believes the MSM to be pro-Israeli is, I am afraid, beyond accepting reason.

I have tried previously to comment on the outright racism in the above post, but it did not get through.

To claim that the UK entered WW1 through the mechanisations of world Jewry would be laughed at were in not that the poster seems to believe it to be true.

As for the "1500 year Crusade": in 400AD the area in question was a Byzantine province, occupied by mainly Christians.  Islam didn't exist.  And the crusade must have been pretty poorly run, as Islam continued to spread by conquest to Austria."I find the ABC to be pretty unbiased in it's reportage of this conflict with journalists on both sides of the border"

Physical location has nothing to do with bias.

While there may be reporters on both sides of the border, they both repeat the official Hamas line, serving as the front line for a terrorist organisation that is using civilian deaths as its primary weapon.We have already debased the words fascism, racism, misogyny: now we are to debase genocide.

Genocide is the deliberate destruction of a race or culture - something that Hamas has publicly stated to be its aim.  The only reason it has not done so is it lacks the ability: it kills as many Israelis as it can.

Israel has, even using Hamas figures, in tow weeks killed less than 2,000 out of a population of 1.8 million. It has the ability to have killed far more, but has not done so.  In fact it has lost many of its own soldiers in sending them in to destroy Hamas installations.  It could have just sat back and shelled and bombed with no risk to its own.

Yet it is Israel that you accuse of genocide. The mind boggles.I rest my case.

To read my post and reply that I want more deaths shows a either a complete inability to comprehend or, more likely, a willingness to disregard rationality while pursuing a fanatical belief.

I stated quite clearly that I was amazed that one side is accused of genocide when it is clearly not carrying out anything of the kind, while the other openly states that genocide is its aim.

If that cannot be understood, I simply give up.For heaven's sake!

People do not speak Latin now as it DID evolve.  Into French, Spanish, Italian, Romanian.

Sometimes I despair at the education system in this country.Perhaps a little help with history.

The Arabs preserved a fair bit of stuff - mainly Greek.  Most the "Roman" stuff was preserved by the "Christians" (you seem to use it as a pejorative).  The bulk of the Greek material, however, was kept by the Byzantines, and spread to the west when Byzantium was captured by the invading Turks.

The West did not burn books, but even parchment has a shelf life of several hundred years.  Every book needed to be copied and some were seen as more valuable than others.  What is amazing is that despite being the works of "pagans". unknown monks slaved for years copying the masterpieces so that we might have them now.

The myth that that Renaissance was possible due to the Arabs preserving ancient knowledge is interesting.  I have no idea where it can from, but it seems to have a lot of adherents.

It is true that in Spain and in Damascus knowledge and culture flourished, but only for a time.  The dead hand of a faith that did not see the need for change soon extinguished the thirst for knowledge.What behaviour in converting Europe?  The usual method was to convert the leaders and so convert from the top down.  Christianity in Europe was not spread by the sword - countless priests went into Germany when it was not safe for an army.

The specific injunctions about Christians and Jews was because they were seen as similar to Muslims.  But not as good.  They were subject to various restrictions and indignities, payed special taxes and were barred from many jobs.  As a result, many converted.

At some times, Christians and Jews prospered in Islamic territory, but they were often seen as threats and subject to persecution.

Perhaps Dove you could explain this:

Number of Jews in Iraq in 1948: 150,000

Current: less than 10

Number of Jews in Egypt in 1948: 75,000

Current: about 100

I could go on, but I have no doubt you will ignore what is evidence of one of the greatest "ethnic cleansings" of the world's history.  A deliberate policy of destroying a culture that existed for 2,000 years.



I have explained this before, but maybe I wasn't clear enough.

When the fuel tax was introduced, it was intended to pay for road construction and maintenance.  It was never intended to tax those who do not use public roads.

Purely for administrative ease, it was decided to levy the tax across the board, and to refund the tax to those to whom it did not apply.

To claim that this is some sort of exemption is simply ridiculous.

If you want to increase tax on mining, fishing, farming etc, then go ahead.  I have no problem with you pushing that view and in some circumstances support it.

But please do not insult my intelligence by claiming that they enjoy some unfair advantage that must be removed.  Running that argument, as Ms Milne no doubt knows, is to mislead the public."Christine, ......  if what you say is true then I am right behind you on this one"

A very wise proviso to place on any comment regarding a statement from the Greens.

The last Greens leader made an art form of stating things to be facts that were at best opinions and at worst outright lies.Vehicles that use public roads do pay fuel tax.

Ms Milne conveniently forgot to mention that.

Only fuel used "off road" is not subject to the tax.

so you can now relax.When claiming tax credits one has to calculate what fuel is used on and off road.  There is no "tax free fuel" at mine sites.  It is all taxed and then claims are made for refunds.

A long time ago (20 years?) miners could buy fuel tax free (as could fishermen and farmers) but that was changed as the system was being abused and was impossible to police.

I have more than 27 years working with tax and big business operations.

I many not tell you much about mining, but I am pretty sure I know a lot more about tax.

PS Most people don't like being patronised: if you want to convince them of the validity of your argument, talk to them respectfully."Palestinian Lands"

Gaza was Egyptian, the West Bank was Jordanian.

There is and was no Palestine, not for nearly 2,000 years.  Even then it was a Roman province.  

And if there was some sort of ancestral Palestine, why were there no uprisings against the Egyptians or Jordanians occupiers?

Surely the current violence is not just because the "occupiers" are Jewish?

Not of course that Gaza is occupied, as everyone but the ABC and the pro-Palestinians know full well.  It is administered by the well known terrorist organisation Hamas, which won free and fair elections in which it murdered most of the opposition.  With no world outcry about violence against civilians.I know it won't help change the minds of the anti-Israelis, but to keep referring to the "children playing on the beach" is to play on emotions.

It brings up a vision of a group of sandcastle building children attacked for no reason.

The reality (I know, a horrible thing to introduce to this forum) is that the beach in question was a patch of sea containers, sheds and buildings on the coast line that had been used  previously by Hamas.  It had been shelled the previous day.

Why a family thought it appropriate to take their children to such a place is another question.

And of course Israel apologised for the deaths.  I am waiting for Hamas or even Fatah to apologise for the deaths of a single Israeli.

But it is all in vain: as can be seen from these posts, Israel is supposed to just sit back and allow Hamas to do as it wishes.

PS Why is it that Israel only kills "innocent civilians"?  Are its troops incapable of detecting those firing rockets and who have killed about 50 Israeli soldiers?

Or, and I hesitate to say this, could Hamas be making things up?  Surely not. 
"I support the Palestinian's endeavour,s to create a safe homeland for their people, but they are do themselves no favours, with this murderous campaign."As you probably well know, it says nothing of the sort.

it requires:

 the application of both the following principles:
(i) Withdrawal of Israel armed forces from territories occupied in the recent conflict;(ii) Termination of all claims or states of belligerency and respect for and acknowledgment of the sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence of every State in the area and their right to live in peace within secure and recognized boundaries free from threats or acts of force."

Both, simultaneously.

So when Hamas renounces violence, accepts Israel's right to existence we will have a chance for 24 to be applied.

PS Note the "recognised boundaries": not necessarily the boundaries prior to the attacks on Israel.The above is so true.

Hamas will not allow reporters to broadcast anything detrimental to their publicity campaign.  No acknowledgment that, as is well known, Hamas is using the main hospital as an administrative centre.  No acknowledgment that at least 10% of Hamas rockets land in Gaza itself.  No photographs of Hamas operatives fighting near schools or firing missiles from suburban streets.

Instead, all we are allowed to see are photos of injured children with no context.

It is the equivalent of criminals only allowing photos of their own injuries to be published, while prohibiting any mention of their crimes.I have tried to supply sources, but the post was "screened".

Not believing in an ABC conspiracy to block information, I suggest you search for "Hamas Gaza censorship".  The Wall Street Journal is one source.

Several mentions of the use of the main hospital for Hamas political, publicity and administrative purposes, reports of Palestinian rocket misfires not being reported and of course the "screening" of any photos of militants operating near schools, mosques or hospitals.I agree totally.

The UN should immediately deploy forces to occupy Gaza and remove all rockets and start rounding up Hamas war criminals for trial.

Then the killing would stop.

Why didn't we think of this earlier.

It may be necessary to be selective in the troops used: apparently some soldiers from Muslim nations are not allowed to combat fellow Muslims, whatever the situation.We want to stop the fighting, not invite genocide.

Which, as no doubt you are aware, is what would happen as soon as Israel was disarmed.

Not phony "genocide" such as Israel is accused of when 1,000 out of several million die due to their being used as human shields.

Real genocide, like in Botswana.

Millions slaughtered because of their race or religion.  Did you ever see the photo of blood-spattered Palestinians holding up knives to a cheering crowd after a few young Israeli soldiers got lost and were hacked to death?  Imagine that a million times over. 

That is what will happen when Israel is disarmed.

Whereas disarming Hamas will lead to peace.

A pretty clear choice it seems to me.  But apparently many prefer the second option.There are none so blind as those that will not see.

If Israel wanted to kill civilians, there would be no need to risk their soldiers.  Simply bomb and shell in safety.

The use of ground troops is evidence of the Israelis trying to achieve their objective (security of their citizens) while minimising the number of dead human shields even at the cost of their soldiers' lives.The land in Gaza was previously Egyptian.  the same Egypt that "blockades" Gaza.   (You are aware that Gaza has a border with Egypt?)

Yet no rockets fly into Egypt, no Egyptians kidnapped and murdered.

I wonder why?  Could it possibly be that the Israelis are Jewish?  Of course not, that would make Hamas a racist terrorist organisation, rather than a selfless and peaceful protector of the weak.QC Bob: obviously a legal reference.

Can you please provide me with evidence that Israel "targets" shelters?

You must have some, otherwise you would have just been making it up.

PS The inhabitants of Gaza elected a Hamas regime.  Or are you suggesting the election was rigged?   I admit Hamas did kill a lot of fellow Palestinians during the election.  But that was OK: there was no world outcry then.The information you have is from the UN who get it from the "local authorities".

Take it from me, artillery is never completely accurate.  You cannot fling an object several kilometres and expect it to hit the exact spot you aim at.  Air temperature, gusts, slight chemical differences in propellant, tiny changes in temperature in the barrel: all can be allowed for but none eliminated.

As for warning: if Hamas is operating in the area, of course the Israelis warn people to get out.  The question should be: "Why did they stay?"

If a rocket launch or enemy fire is detected and return fire is directed at the location, only a person sitting comfortable in Australia would expect that the response could not hit something close by.

I suppose you expect that if Hamas can fire from behind a civilian shield that the Israelis should just accept it.  Sorry to upset you, but that is not how war works.  If I am fired at, I return fire.  The alternative is to die, and to watch my friends and comrades die.  The blame for the deaths of civilians lies with the person hiding behind them.I have not seen a single claim that Israel is "killing in the name of God", nor claims they are "hard done by".

They are acting in self defence.

Perhaps Hamas believes it is killing in the name of God.  I assumed it was plain racism and hate.  I may be wrong.Please do not make things up.

Listen to what is actually being said: Israel is trying to protect its citizens.

The number of people who simply write what they would like to be true on this forum is amazing.At last some common sense.

To be "fair" in a conflict is to be cowardly. 

The courageous thing is to examine the facts decide which side is more correct.

The unoccupied region of Gaza  (why is it referred to as "occupied" - are all the commentators uninformed?  or they think it sounds better?) has been attacking its neighbour for years.  With half its population sleeping in bomb shelters, Israel has pleaded for the rulers of the area to stop these attacks.  The rulers, who have pledged to destroy their neighbour, simply increase the attacks.

So Israel responds.  The terrorists, unable to resist the power of a democratic state, shelter behind civilians, knowing their best weapon is the dead bodies of their children.  The gullible fall for it.

Those with some backbone stand up for the victims and push for peace, not surrender to violence.

Even if it does mean that the co-religionists of the terrorists use diplomatic or economic muscle.

There is no moral equivalency: there is right and wrong.  I for one will make a moral decision, not a politically correct one.And while in Syria more people are killed in a day than have been killed in weeks in Gaza, the UN and other Palestinian supporters wail about "Israeli aggression".

Why not the same level of urgency when Arab kills Arab?

Surely not (gulp) a double standard?  That is OK for Arabs to kill Arabs, but not for Israelis to kill Arabs, even in self defence?While I found this quite amusing, given the unconscious humour of many of the posts on the Drum, I am not sure that it was meant to poke fun.

I really hope it was, but I suspect many won't get the joke but will be nodding  their heads in agreement.Too many questionable statements to address!

But just one:

"By far the biggest threat posed to Australia by terrorism derives directly from our far too close association with the United States of America"

The perpetrators of the Bali bombing, the most deadly terrorist attack on Australia, pointed at our support of the liberation of East Timor as the reason we were a legitimate target. 

How does that tie in with the theory that to be safe we should abandon our allies?

Other statements by actual terrorists have identified our very culture and the fact that we are not Muslim as sufficient justification for our deaths.

I fear you must find a better reason for our abdication of a role in world affairs.You quoted me, but seem to have misunderstood what I said.

The bombers didn't care too much about the middle east - it was East Timor they claimed was the motivation.  And a general hatred of the west.

And please, no more "this is a fact" before making a statement of opinion.I am so glad that Mr Green has decided to move away from emotive responses to emotive photos and fear campaigns.

When can we expect to see reasoned articles ignoring emotive photos of injured Palestinian children and instead concentrating on the aggressive and bloodthirsty nature of Hamas?

And some sort of humorous approach to the "We are all doomed" of the true believers of the Faith of Climate Change?

I won't hold my breath.

Mr Greens' call for reason, tolerance, humour etc is only a technique to turn us away from thinking of things he would prefer we ignore.

We cannot be distracted from the mantra "West bad, everyone else good"."If the 150 or so godless deranged barbarians .."

Why do you think they are godless?  They claim to be extremely religious.  They are admired by many of their religion as being the most devoted, the ones prepared to sacrifice themselves for their religion.

Just because, like Mr Green, you prefer not to mention it, does not make it less true.Tinkering with the amount and the exemption does nothing: the real point is to destroy bulk billing.

Many doctors can only afford to bulk bill because they do not need to set up a billing system.

the "co-payment" is structured in such a way that failure to collect it will mean it is the doctor who suffers: the co-payment is subtracted from the medicare repayment.

If forced to set up a collection system, how many doctors will regretfully decide that they must recoup that cost be increased charges?Pres Obama did not create the problems in the ME by pulling troops out of Iraq or by failing to act in Syria.  (Look at the support much of the world gave to keeping Saddam Hussein in power - why would anyone seek more pain?)

The problems can be traced back to one of his first actions after elected: his trip to Cairo where he effectively told the dictators and fundamentalists who dominate the Middle East that the USA was bowing out: the region was now theirs.

His ambivalent attitude to the only successful democracy in the area confirmed his complete disinterest in doing anything to improve life for the inhabitants of the area.

A strong statement of resolve might have squashed violence before it became too bloody, but this president doesn't do resolve.

His only strong statements come when a member of his constituency is in a dispute with the police and the race card is played, at which time he speaks and acts before any facts are known.  In other words, a populist president unable to make hard decisions.  Not good for the world, and definitely not good for the ME."Negative mainstream media"?? 
Perhaps the Telegraph (Sydney) and other Murdoch press isn't mainstream.Thanks Zing - we need more people with a little knowledge on this forum.  There are far too many posters who make things up.

Even so, to try to excuse the Democrats (and their Australian ALP allies) for their part in the abandonment of the South Vietnamese to the mercy of the invading North Vietnamese is a bit rich.

Or possibly not: I have been assured many times that the US was defeated by a few peasants armed with only will-power.  When I ask where the Soviet tanks and anti-air missiles came from there is a blank look of incomprehension: the introduction of facts into the discussion is simply too much to deal with.

It is the same with Iraq: the US was involved, ergo everything must not only be bad, it must be the fault of the USA.  Personally I find this denial of freewill to the Iraqis and their neighbours a form of racism.My father in law is getting pretty old and his mental facualties have declined alarmingly.  Once a highly skilled professional, he is now content to sit watching TV most of the day.  He prefers shows that require little or no thought.

I hasten to add that this is no fault of his own.  Nevertheless, his relatives must keep a watch as he sometimes orders things that are advertised so attractively.  We have had to return an entire set of gym equipment - hardly a necessity for a man in his late eighties.  

To imagine that he could understand the implications of a complex contract is simply ignoring reality.  To classify him as a "gullible sap" is simply cruel.  Luckily he has children who are able to monitor and look after him.  Many others are not so fortunate.

We have government oversight of such things for a reason.  Unfettered capitalism is the scourge of the weak.  That is not a criticism of the system: it is a statement of fact.  Capitalism is a tool we use to run our economy and like most tools it needs safeguards to stop it injuring the user.

The closest comparison I can see is the reaction to those insurance salesmen who boosted their commissions by flogging policies to the inhabitants of remote communities who were not experienced in such matters, who would never use the policies and could not afford the premiums.

As  a society that uses the capitalist system, we have a responsibility to protect the weak in society.  This is not an area in which government should "butt out": it is an essential duty of government which it should not ignore.A quote from my post.

" Luckily he has children who are able to monitor and look after him. Many others are not so fortunate."

A quote from your reply

"How about YOU do a little caring and protecting?"

I cannot see how my statement can be misunderstood, so I assume you commented without reading it or you cannot comprehend English.  If the former, you should really make an effort, if the latter, my commiserations.

As I said, we (and our government) have a duty to protect those who for any reason, are vulnerable.  You seem to disagree.  Is this based on a moral aversion or because you think it nothing to do with you?
Got as far as the first line before hit by a deliberate "mistruth".

"Edward Snowden exposed the unlawful intelligence activities of the US and Australia ... "

What unlawful intelligence activities?  Who has been charged?  What law was broken?  

Once again, a Drum article that confuses what the writer would like to have happened with the facts.

Snowden betrayed his country, did enormous damage to international relations and achieved nothing but harm.  He now skulks in the Soviet Union, a pariah to anyone who sees diplomacy as the way to maintain world peace.

He revealed nothing illegal, but plenty that would have been better left secret.  Most people with any intelligence realise that there are some things that are better left unsaid.

Trying to portray him as some sort of crusader for freedom and the individual would be laughable were it not such a serious matter.  Does Mr Barns ever wonder why the Soviet Union, that proud protector of freedom and individual rights is sheltering him?Dear Malcolm

May I suggest that you go and look at some real figures about migration and refugee intake.  You may learn that all the froth and confected outrage are a mirage.

Australia is one of the most generous and welcoming countries in the world for both migrants and refugees.  Unfortunately this has encouraged a business to develop in delivering would be immigrants to our shores.  In order to maintain the high numbers we accept legally, we must ensure that our rules are obeyed.

All we are trying to do is to prevent exploitation of our generosity.  If you were running a soup kitchen for the homeless, would you be happy if residents of the local area started to queue up because it was easier than making their own dinner?It is not a matter of moral superiority, though I think one could mount a decent argument that morally Australia's approach to migration and refugee placement is far better than that of many of its critics.

I was pointing to the facts: in terms of percentage of population, I suspect that Australia has accepted more migrants than any other country.  (Possibly Israel does better).  Our refugee program, where citizenship or permanent residency are easily available, is also far more generous than other countries which merely park refugees in huge camps with no prospect of work or acceptance.

I too lived through the post-war migration boom, in fact that was when I arrived here.  There was some hostility: in my experience about 1 in 1,000.  There was some need to adjust: where I lived Italians, Greeks, Slavs, English and Australians all fitted in.  No riots, no murders, no ghettos.  A few insults, a few fist fights.  Later Vietnamese, Chinese, Indians went through much the same.

Look at the number of people from all races that want to come here.  Do you think that would be the case if it were a hell-hole of racism and bigotry?  Why the cringe?

We should be proud of our record and see the recent difficulties with smugglers as a tiny blip.Strange that in a whole article dedicated to the situation in Israel/Palestine, not one mention of why their are so many machine guns and checkpoints, why the intensive scrutiny.

Was the author unaware of the number of Israelis killed and mutilated by attacks before the security regime was installed?  Or did she decide it was irrelevant?  Surely it was not left out because it did not fit her narrative of a poor and peaceful population oppressed by a cruel and heartless militaristic Israel?

"The collective fear, paralysis and brutality of continued occupation breeds among a hopeless Palestinian population, and an increasingly militarised Israel is ultimately crushing to both sides"

All could be alleviated by a simple decision on the part of the Palestinians: stop the demonising and killing of Israelis and start real negotiations.

Unfortunately the author has chosen to continue with the myth of a "helpless" people, unable to determine their own future.  In reality, the Palestinians have had their future in their own hands for generations, but have gone down the path of violence.

Let me see if I have understood you correctly.

Although the Palestinians have blown up Israeli buses and cafes, killing dozens, that is offset because the Israelis have built a few blocks of flats?

What a strange world of moral equivalence some people inhabit.I was merely referring to "What the"

"The Israelies could also stop inflamming the situation by stopping the building of settlements and putting their people in harm's way."

It was he or she who stated the equivalence, not me.

Of course the Israelis are not without sin.  It would be foolish to say otherwise.  But it is their opponents who single out building blocks of flats are the most important of their crimes.R. Ambrose Raven thinks I live in a strange world.

High praise indeed.  I live in the real world, the world of facts and rationality, not the world of wishes and conspiracies.

I have followed Mr/Ms Raven's posts for some time and cannot comprehend the world he or she lives in.I was not focussing on who was to blame.

I was questioning the author's assignment of blame and wondering why she ignored the most salient facts.

Did that not worry you?Are you seriously stating that the author was not assigning blame?

Can you point to a single line which does not portray the Palestinians as innocent sufferers and the Israelis as all-powerful offenders?

Come on, I am all for your supporting your "side" but I for one find it better to be objective.

I was not assigning blame - I was asking why the author made no attempt to be even-handed in her approach.  That several posters apparently think she was even-handed fills me with despair.  

Not just for peace in the ME, but for our education system that has obviously failed to inculcate comprehension and analytical thought.That you believe me to be biased, ignorant and hypocritical is unfortunate, but I can live with it.

That I am accused of these faults for merely pointing out that the article is one-sided is what amazes me.  I accept that the Drum is entitled to publish one-side articles - most of its content appears generated by a small coterie of like minded thinkers.  But I also believe that I am entitled to point it out: if only to warn the gullible who might believe such articles to be informative rather than appealing to the emotions.

How can I be biased for pointing out bias?  How can I be ignorant for stating facts?  How can I be hypocritical when quoting others?

You have even admitted the article is biased.  I can only assume that your post, lacking in argument, is a long ad hominem.If, as you state, the majority of Palestinians don't want to be blown up, why do they continue to vote for and actively support those who see violence rather than negotiation as the answer to all problems?

Have you any evidence to support your claim?  Or do you just imagine it must be so as that first your view of the situation?Not to forget that the Israelis investigated and arrested suspects for the killing of the Palestinian boy.  And the Palestinians did ... ?

PS Why is the murdered Palestinian always referred to as a "boy" while the Israelis murdered are always called "settlers", "teenagers" or "religious students"?

Surely not biased reporting?  No, that would never happen.So a 16 year od Israeli is a "mature age student" but a 15 year old Palestinian is a "boy"?

For goodness sake, Orwell revealed "doublespeak" last century." Why does the world/UN look the other way when Israel continues its complete destruction of the Palestinians and their dwindling bit of territory?"

Ignoring the characterisation of stopping Palestinians from killing Israelis as "destroying" them, since when did the world/UN look the other way?

For my entire life the word and particularly the UN have concentrated on Israel to the exclusion of all else.  A few hundred murdered in the Congo?  Not worth worrying about.  Israel puts up a fence to stop murderers blowing up buses?  Emergency!  Summon ambassadors, pass motions and condemn the inhumanity.

Or was this a subtle joke?  It is hard to tell sometimes on the Drum.  I have often laughed uproariously at the latest conspiracy theory until realising the poster was serious.I assume by the Crusades you mean the attempts to liberate areas invaded by the Arabs in the 7th and 8th Centuries, while conquering their way to Europe.

If so doubt it: the Crusaders were Christian and the Israelis are mainly Jewish.

Or did you already know that?


BTW: "Very similar to the situation they have orchestrated over most of the world including Africa, Iraq, Afghanistan, Australia from a first nations perspective."

You do realise that other than Australia, you have listed the areas conquered and subjugated by the Arab expansion?

So by your argument, it is actually all their fault?  "The West" didn't arrive in Iraq etc until the original culture and religion of the "first nations" had been eliminated.

Or is only "the West" that is guilty of these things?  Reality is so confusing: no wonder so many prefer conspiracies.I would like to reply to Rabbithole but simply don't know where to start.

The bit about the Roman Empire morphing into the Catholic Church is attractive, but then so is the idea that the Catholics "invented" Islam.  I am struggling with the connection between Western expansion and the petrodollar, but then I am not quite sure that Australia is stony broke.

I leave to the reader to decide.  Perhaps the last sentence of my prior post was prescient.I think you may find that "international terrorism" began in the 19th Century.  In Eastern Europe.

PS Have you ever considered that people might blame the Palestinians for the violence because they tend to use a lot of it?

Firing a rocket at a civilian population is violent.  Building a fence to stop suicide murderers is non-violent.  Pretty easy to spot the difference when you think about it.

Ever thought about a population that cannot maintain a power plant but is able to keep up a barrage of rockets and enough arms to equip an army?  Wondered if that gives a hint of priorities?Skipping over most of your post (I think you are admitting that Palestinian civilian casualties are unintended but Israeli civilians are the targets).

"If I was a Palestinian civilian I would likely want to stop the suicide bombers as much as the Israelis because without them those barriers might not be there"

Perhaps that is the case.  Unfortunately that is not the case, and the real Palestinians don't want to stop the suicide murderers.

PS That the security fence has an adverse affect on Palestinians is to be regretted, but the priority of the Israeli govt is to protect its citizens.  If the Palestinians prefer to import and manufacture rockets rather than food or medicine, that is hardly the fault of the Israelis.I am always amazed at the incompetence of the Israelis.

Despite the presence of hundreds of youth throwing rocks and Molotov cocktails, they always arrest young boys who are on the way to the shops to buy their mum a present and just happened to be passing.Here's a suggestion.

The USA and Europe, the major contributors to the Palestinian "economy" threaten to cut off all aid if the Palestinians don't start real peace talks within a fortnight.  (This would, of course, require the cessation of all rockets, murders, riots etc).  The Israelis could back it up by closing the borders to all Palestinians working in Israel.

If nothing else it would allow the Palestinians to decide whether they preferred to feed their children or kill Israeli children.

Or is would this be collective punishment for the policies of their government?  While your suggestion was not?

The real problem is that my suggestion is far more likely to lead to peace while your's would just lead to more violence as the Palestinians have always shown that a concession is seen as encouragement.Israel arrests and charges its citizens who kill Palestinians.

The Palestinians treat those who kill Israelis as heroes, name streets and schools after them and hold them up as exemplars to their children.

That could explain why I am more inclined to support the Israelis than the Palestinian."Hamas has denied they had anything to do with the kidnapping"

Well that's fair enough then.  They are innocent.

Next time the Israeli Armed Forces state that they had nothing to do with the death of a Palestinian, I expect you to extend the same acceptance of their word.What secret files have you accessed to state with certainty that the murder of the Palestinian youth was "State sponsored"?

Or is this another Drum "let's pretend" post?

PS The "illegal state of Israel": try to be realistic.

PPS No apostrophe required for "its" when used as a possessive: only when it's an abbreviation.

PPS How can firing rockets months ago be a response to a crime carried out last week?  A crime for which suspects have been arrested?  And you are keen on legality - but no mention of "illegal rocket attacks"?Peace - that is what I would like to see.  The problem is that it takes two sides to make peace.

The Israelis say that to start negotiations the Palestinians must stop trying to kill Israelis.  The Palestinians say that the Israelis must stop building apartments in existing settlements.

We could just insist on the Israelis making the first step.  That would be a fine gesture.

Unfortunately it has been tried.  Israel declared halt to all building to start peace talks.  For months nothing happened, other than the continuing rocket attacks.  So they started building again.  And were of course immediately accused of torpedoing any chance of peace talks.

It is hard to have an honest discussion of peace when one side glorifies those who murder innocent civilians of the other nation.  Imagine the difficulties we would have with Indonesia if, instead of hanging the Bali bombers, a major thoroughfare in Jakarta were to be named after one of them.  Or a school.  Or if there bombing was held up as an example of heroism.

It is all very well to theoretically talk of peace: the practicalities are a bit harder.  I really do hope that one day the Palestinians realise that the death cult that they have elected is the wrong way to go and that their children deserve better than to die as suicide bombers.Apparently they were fleeing from India.  Are you alleging that India is persecuting Tamils?

Or will you admit that they were quite safe from persecution where they were, but thought life would be better in Australia?I take it from your post that you accept that these would-be arrivals have come directly from India.

What persecution are they fleeing?  Has India a history of persecuting Tamils? Isn't the population of Tamil Nadhu mainly Tamil?

In the absence of any evidence of persecution, isn't it pretty clear that the motivation is economic?  There cannot be any other, as all Indians (and Drum readers) know we are a racist, intolerant, misogynistic and generally despicable nation of white supremacists.  The only thing going for us is our unexplained generosity in granting permanent residency and then citizenship to millions of immigrants.

One further point.  The 100,000 Tamils you mention currently living in India.  (I assume you mean Sri Lankan Tamils, not the homegrown who would number in the millions).  Had the current boat loads been welcomed with open arms by Senator Sarah Hanson-Young and ushered to taxpayer-funded  community residences, how long before another couple of boats would have been hired?

This article hits a new low in Drum deception

I am sure the author knows that we currently take more migrants than ever before and that they are almost universally welcomed.

Why then does he allege we don't?

Because he dislikes the idea of a migration policy which sets limits on how many and whom we allow into the country.

As far as I can determine from his often rambling and emotive laden post (I refuse to call it an argument - it lacks all rationality) he will only be satisfied when anyone in the world who wants to come to Australia is not only welcomed but possibly paid to do so.

He final ludicrous suggestion that any problems can be sorted out by security and police is the topping on the cake.  How many millions of man hours and dollars are already sucked up by the current would be terrorists and jihadists?  Can you imagine that multiplied by ten? By a thousand?  The High Court packed with human rights claims?

We have an immigration policy that has led to almost 50% of our population either being born overseas or having parents born overseas.  By any standards that is incredibly generous.   Let us not destroy the partisanship and general good feeling towards immigration and immigrants by advocating some sort of open slather that would lead inexorably to an anti-immigrant party with mass support.I have grown tired of the "war criminals" and "illegal war" rubbish, but will put up with it: any reader can see it is a subjective view.

But can you please stop blatant lies?

Guns and bullets for the Iraqi Army were not supplied by the USA, UK and or Australia.  (It is unclear whom you accuse).

They were primarily sourced from the Soviet Union.  The tanks were clearly Russian, the aircraft Russian or French.

There may be some readers who actually believe things stated in these posts as being "facts" so we should all be careful.

That is, of course, those of use who try to be accurate as opposed to those who have no problem with just making things up.Well, when you have the largest economy it is not difficult to understand why you might have the largest military.  But of course, the USA does not have the largest military, as even the most perfunctory research would reveal.

Still, never let the facts or reality stand in the way of turning any thread into an anti-USA discussion.  There are plenty who will join in.

But of course, that all ignores the suffering of the North Korean people.  They are the people who starve and are exploited to build the armed forces that are not needed.   I suppose they don't matter to those who wish to condemn the West for everything.  Very sad, but completely in character. 

Why is it so hard to condemn evil when it is revealed?  Why not congratulate the USA which led the fight to save South Koreans from the same fate? 
How much oil did South Korea have? Or Vietnam?

Smart-arse comments are well and good, but to be effective they need some basis in reality.

BTW: the article is about the inhumanity of the North Korean regime, an implacable enemy of the USA,  Did you miss that bit?I can remember the joy when all alcohol restrictions were removed from those identified as Aboriginal.  When at last those previously barred were allowed to drink as much as they wanted.

It was seen as a great achievement, a step forward.

I wonder how all those who lives have been blighted feel about it?

Like so many steps towards equality, nobody thought of the consequences.

We should not be talking about a handful of people locked up for their own and society's safety.  We should be talking about thousands condemned through no fault of their own to a life with foetal alcohol syndrome, a life which in which they will never be "equal".

Until we address the biggest drug problem in Australia, all the rest is hand wringing and self justification.

Nobody, particularly not a politician relying on funds from the Alcohol industry, will ever take any steps to curb the evil that rots our society from within.I agree with the general thrust of the article, but why the persistent emphasis that this somehow this is a primarily a 
"racial" issue?

There was no evidence that such incarceration was racially based: the higher number of those identifying as Aboriginal can be explained by the sad fact that they are more likely to be affected by foetal alcohol syndrome and less likely to have a support network.  (In fact many such people are abused, as was Ms Fulton, by their own communities).

Nor was there any evidence that the absence of suitable accommodation or legislation due to anything but apathy on the part of governments of all sorts.

Why can we not have a mature discussion of an issue without having to drag in the irrelevancies such as the sufferers' "race"?

To quote the authors' words

 "The Aboriginal Disability Justice Campaign estimates that up to 30 people with cognitive impairments are detained indefinitely in our prisons each year. Thirty per cent will be Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders"

Why is the 30% the story?  Why not the issue itself?There have always been deaths in war.  This is an inevitable consequence, and is not limited to combatants, despite the apparent belief by many Drum posters that this is possible.

(For example, the journalist killed by a US gunship while he was with a group of terrorists from whom he could not be  distinguished.)

Many journalists will take the risk.  As do medical crews and others.   Just as some journalists venture into areas dangerous because of disease, weather conditions and civil disorders short of warfare.  There is a risk of death or serious injury.

Are we to prohibit such persons carrying out their desired occupation unless they are employed by large corporations?  I can just see the headlines: "Big Business Restricts What You Can Know!".

Or only allow them to operate where government deems it "safe".  Now the headlines are "Big Government Censors".

Journalists will always want to cover wars: people will always die in wars.  To pretend otherwise is childish.  If those willing to take the risks cannot or will not get insurance against those risks it is perhaps unfortunate but one cannot force an insurer to cover those who willingly live lives that are too dangerous.  (Or perhaps some posters think we should).

Or perhaps journalists should be restricted to "safe" wars, wars where the likelihood of being killed is very low such as the recent fighting in Gaza.  Where on the Gaza side all you need to do is attend the daily Hamas briefing and get your handouts and guided tours (that is all that is allowed) and on the Israeli side know that the armed forces are no risk to you at all, no matter how badly or foolishly you behave.

Or maybe the writer is at last acknowledging that the much maligned "embedding" is a way of stopping journalists from being killed."Did the apache gunship pilots get referred to court martial...or trial for killing civilians...no. Do the Israelis strictly enforce rules when civilians are killed in missile attacks etc...no. So much for the law."

While I had to disturb you in full flight, I should point out that before a court martial there must be some semblance of a crime.  If a journalist embedded with terrorists engaged in a gun battle decides to join his hosts in seeking better shelter from attack, and makes no attempt to identify himself as a non-combatant, then he is a target.  To charge those who fired on the group which included the journalist would be a waste of time and money, just to make a few anti-USA types happy.  And you wonder why the USA doesn't want to join the International Court?  When it would be used to charge every US soldier for doing his or her job?  (As the UN is used to condemn Israel ad infinitum).

The photographer's own employer admitted that embedding was dangerous and that no blame for his death could be assigned: he knew the risk.

As for the Israel comment: give it a break.  f you attack your neighbour, you must expect a response.  That Hamas refers to every death as a "civilian" increases the toll, but as you well know, it is the practice of attacking from civilian areas that is the main reasons for such deaths.Why is the author considering legality before morality?

Laws are man-made and some are good and some are bad.  As are agreements

We should first consider what it is right.  Should we sit back and do nothing while thousands are killed for the religion, their tribe or their race?

If yes, then legality doesn't come into it.  We can continue moaning about the harsh treatment of those who decide to migrate via private entrepreneurs while the persecution continues.  (I assume that moaning will assuage any pangs of conscience).

If, as I do, you feel that we have a responsibility to do something, it is a matter of what and how.  If there are laws preventing us from doing what we should, then those laws are wrong and need to be changed.  But there are very few laws that would impact a government action.  

If we have agreements with other nations (which many people wrongly refer to as "laws") that prevent us helping those in need, then the agreements need to be altered or broken.

Simple really.

Why would we offer cups of water to those whose village well is being poisoned?  Much better to stop those poisoning the well.

From the posts here, however, I get the impression that Drum posters prefer to treat the symptoms rather than the cause.
I have been calling for intervention in the Congo for years: my posts on this forum will reveal a completely consistent position.

Unlike many who only care when the bullet has "Made in America" written on it.

Or the UN which is more concerned with Israeli construction projects than the slaughter of hundreds of thousands of human beingsI have never considered one dead child as being worth less than another.  Every dead child is a tragedy, a life stolen before its owner has had a chance to live properly.

You have probably taken my comments regarding a brutal regime which specifically places children in harm's way against a government which takes every care to protect its children.  Those huge tunnels under Gaza would have kept many children safe from danger: pity they were used for storing rockets and preparing for kidnap attempts.

Where one side wants to place its civilians in danger as its strategy is to get them killed, while another's prime focus is to protect its children, then it is to be expected that the latter will lose more civilians, including children.

I may have pointed out that as the Palestinians encourage high birth rate that they have a very large proportion of young people.  Nowhere near that proportion of children is represented in the casualty figures, showing the efforts Israel makes to not hit civilians.  (At the cost of its own soldiers' lives).

And that is despite the Hamas policy of referring to armed teenagers fighting for them as "children".Once again Ms Hamad is out to join those who want to turn a pebble into a mountain.

Before the trolls start, no, I do not think that the death of anyone is a minor event.

But neither is one death (or even a dozen) proof of some crazed killing frenzied racial society.

Once one clears the emotional verbiage, what do we have in this case?  A young man, who apparently has  just robbed a local store with a group of friends, is creating a traffic hazard with these friends.  A policeman orders him to the side of the street and he instead approaches the vehicle.

Here the accounts differ.  The police allege he attempted to take the officer's gun, and that he was shot while the struggle took place.  That there were six shots is explained by the fact that five wounds were found at the autopsy to be "non-fatal" ie not enough to stop the assault.  (We cannot tell as no toxicology has been released, but some commonly used recreational drugs can allow the user to shrug off wounds).

Several witnesses allege that the youth was shot while standing with his hands in the air.  There is no mention whether they agree that the youth tried to take the gun.  Given the openly acknowledged hostility to the police in this neighbourhood, this evidence is at least doubtful.  Hostility to the police has led to many miscarriages of justice, notably the acquittal of OJ Simpson for a double murder.  It must also be acknowledged that racism is a two edged sword: many African-Americans display incredible racism. (Listen to the Rev Sharpton).

So nothing really can be determined without more information.  

Yet Ms Hamad as usual disdains the facts.  The policeman is of course guilty: he is white, ergo he is a racist, ergo he loves shooting African Americans.  With that settled, this is evidence of widespread and lethal racism throughout the US.

Unfortunately the ABC and most of the media take the same stance.  Statements by "witnesses" are quoted as truth (were these the victim's associates?  We are never told) while any statement by the police is an "allegation".  The police officer can be accused of anything, yet any reference to the victim's behaviour or criminal record is "character-assassination".  

PS "the myth of the Dangerous Black Man".
 
"There is nothing more painful to me at this stage in my life than to walk down the street and hear footsteps and start thinking about robbery. Then look around and see somebody white and feel relieved"  Jesse Jackson
The Irish, the Poles, the Chinese, the Vietnamese, the Cambodians, and now the Hispanics all succeeded to not only get out of poverty but also to get out of the crime statistics.

All were treated badly by the rest of society.  (And let us not forget the Jews, who were treated shamefully).

Why is it that the African Americans have not profited from the boom in the US since the end of WW2?  Why are they the only large group (except perhaps the Native Americans) to have not moved out of the poverty/crime morass?  

As I don't believe in racial differences having anything but a cosmetic effect (and that "race" is a human construct that is really meaningless) I can't fall back on the easy explanation.

I would hazard a guess it is a combination of culture and victimhood, but am open to other solutions.As I had just stated with no equivocation that it was not "race", how on earth do you see this as a "dog whistle" call for a "race" based explanation.

I was only saying that I considered two explanations but was open to the existence of others.

I can only suppose this post is another example, like Ms Hamad's whole article, of the writer's obsession with race colouring his/her view of the world, to the extent of ignoring the obvious and abandoning reason and common sense.You are right of course, but facts are of no interest to those, like Ms Hamad, are constantly on the look for racism.  (White racism of course, no similar articles on Aboriginal - Islander conflict, Arab - Black or any other "races").

I thought her comment

"Already tense race relations are not helped by things such as SketchFactor, an app developed by white New Yorkers to help people avoid "bad" parts of town"

could more accurately have been

"Already tense race relations are not helped by things such as Ms Ruby Hamad's article, in which she makes baseless allegations that racist killing of African Americans are widespread".

PS Given the chilling video of anti-police rioting in the neighbourhood, the chances of the policeman successfully claiming that his response to being attacked was appropriate has been increased, just as the credibility of the witnesses has dropped.

Because of course, if the policeman can be accused of racially motivated murder, then the witnesses can just as logically be accused of racially motivated lying.

Sorry - I forgot that only white people are racist.  But isn't that racist? Probably best to just address the facts.I have to agree.

Ruby is fixated on her dislike of the culture from which she has benefited.  There are an awful lot like her.  I have noticed that some of the most vociferous of attackers of the Australian way of life are those who have benefited the most.  A cursory scan of the Aboriginal welfare industry can demonstrate this.  As can a survey of those protesting against the oppression and silencing of women.

It is a case of concentrating on the speck in your own eye to the detriment of the beam in your neighbour's.

Why no comments on Chinese "racism" to others (including whites)?  Or Arab "racism" towards Africans?  Or Indian "racism" to those of a slightly darker skin colour?

Yet every time a white person is involved, it makes world headlines.  That it only occurs very infrequently says more about the level of racism than anything else."Hate" is a strong word.  (Or it is now, I suppose soon it will become like "racism", "fascist" and "misogyny": practically meaningless, a term of disagreement).

In my time in the US I found nobody who hated anyone, though plenty who disliked others.   None because of race, many because of behaviour.

They disliked groups who mugged them, who assaulted them and who they saw as a drain on society.  They particularly disliked men who abandoned their families and left them for the state or the mother to bring up.  (A bit like Pres Obama's father.  I have never understood why he would want to identify with his father who abandoned him, (as did his mother in the end) and not his grandparents who looked after him.  Very strange, and probably worth a PhD.  Like those Australians who identify with their great great great grandmother and ignore the rest of the family).I am so glad that the writer will no longer write about civilian casualties in Gaza, knowing that this is the objective of Hamas.I am afraid you are wrong when you claim that China will do nothing on CO2 reduction until 2030.  In fact it has stated it will be increasing its CO2 output until then.  No limit on this increase, no promise to reduce its output afterwards.

As it is now the world's largest producer, this makes action by most other countries pointless.

Given that China has been applauded by the Greens for this brave action, I suggest Mr Abbot immediately drop all current action and emulate the Chinese with a similar promise to increase CO2 output for a similar period.These budget cuts are already having a good effect: the number of sensible Drum articles has at least doubled.  (Albeit from a very low base).

I have to say that Ms Young's article is one of the best blends of personal and public discussion I have read on the horribly difficult and sensitive subject of assisted death.

Like nearly everyone, I contemplate the painful or humiliating death of any human being, not just myself, with a mixture of horror and empathy.  I cannot begin to think what it must be like to endure it - not myself, I think can do that, but as one who loves the one suffering who must watch that slow, seemingly endless, decline.

But I am also wary of increasing the power of others (the state, the medical profession) over our lives.  Because we are not talking of suicide, we are talking of assisted death.  There is no penalty for successful suicides: the law changes are to protect those who "assist" the death of another.

The "slippery slope" is often mocked, but it happens to be a process that occurs.  It is a small step from helping someone asking to be killed to helping someone who would ask, if only they could if not physically prevented from doing so.  Then if psychologically prevented from doing so.

And, as Ms Young has indicated, once we start to view some of our fellow human beings as not having lives worth living, we are on the path to madness.

Let alone the pressure that would be brought on some people, perhaps by well meaning relatives querying why the "sufferer" soldiers on when they are such a liability and drag on others.

I have elderly relatives with a mixture of illnesses, some of whom are very demanding of my time.  I have been known to be frustrated at these people whom I love at to express such feelings with expletives.  But I would be aghast if news of such an outburst was to get back to the relative and convince them that I thought they were a liability.  I would be even more horrified if that convinced them to ask someone to end their lives.

We can do much to ease the minds and bodies of those in pain or distress.  We should work on that rather than handing out immunities from prosecution to those who wish to assist in their deaths.In a discussion of morality and empathy, any mention of insurance companies should be banned.

They have nothing to do with the concepts, and, in my admittedly biased opinion, their management would not know morality if they tripped over it.

That is not a criticism: I don't criticise lions for killing.  But I don't give them free range of cattle farms either.

They are a way of hedging and should be ruled and governed within an inch of their lives.  They know that every point they shave of those who paid for protection is pure profit.  And they know that that is the only thing that matters.Prof, did the nurse actually STATE that she screamed due to seeing a colostomy bag, or is that an assumption. If she screamed because of seeing a colostomy bag, says that the nurse is completely unprofessional and should be pulled up on her conduct. However if it is an assumption on your part, I'd ask you to keep your assumptions to yourself.'About time the medical 'professions' got their collective heads out of the books, stuck their university degree on a high shelf, stopped outsourcing the yukky bits and quit worshipping their technology'. Excuse me leafy, but this learned and highly qualified 'profession' is what diagnosed, treated and kept your father alive long enough and with a semblance of dignity and comfort to make peace with himself and his loved ones. As for the one condescending nurse, although the attitude is inexcusable, try and imagine how many people with smoking induced, terminal lung all adamant that their life choices are not responsible, and it's all the nurses fault for bringing them back to reality. Oh, and the accusation that nobody checked on you're father or fed him is outright rubbish, and is from those who've NEVER even walked in nurses shoes, but rather incorrectly observed from the sidelines. Terminal people do not have an appetite, and rarely eat. Second, terminal people are usually put on palliative care at the end, meaning that all interventions are removed, except to make them comfortable, however comfort lasts only as long as the medication works, and medication has a limit, for which it becomes ineffective or dangerous.  Finally, terminal disease is a messy process, and expecting everything to be spotless during this time is being unreasonable. Perhaps the nurses had other priorities than  constantly changing the very limited linen, such as nursing the other 8 patients.Yeah i wish the police would pay me not to speed, instead of fining me when i do, which is a pretty good analogy of the coalitions direct action policyA cheap shot Barrie but what else can we expect. If it was Gillard or Rudd you were writing about in the same circumstances we would be reading how wonderfully impressive was the performance of the Prime Minister.Yeah cant let those curtains fade, you know since daylight savings somehow makes the sun shine for an extra hour, ignoring all scientific laws.

Personally, im sick and tired of it being dark at 6:30 in queensland in summerWon't someone please think of the curtainsOr that many women are not prepared to make the sacrifices required to achieve those jobs?

There are many men not prepared to do so: is it not possible that more women then men see the price as too high to pay?  Or the goal not worth fighting for?

Not everything is due to some patriarchal plot.

In business I have known many capable women who simply had no interest in "climbing to the top".  They could have done so - they decided not to.  (There was never a lack of men desperate to achieve, often above their capacity).

It had nothing to do with any gender issue, except perhaps that the women had a different (and in my opinion better) idea of what they wanted from life.  Work and career were part of their lives, it was not all of their lives.

Should we force capable women to do what they don't want to do, or should we promote other women to jobs that they cannot do?  I suppose the second is preferable: there are a lot of men in jobs they cannot do: a look at the Federal Parliament will provide plenty of examples." ... corporations getting their hands on the metadata that increasingly defines our lives."

Metadata?

I am worried about the basic data such corporations hold.

I am still amazed that many on this forum are more concerned with their government knowing how many phone calls they made than that a private corporation has complete control of far more intrusive information.

And that the "Privacy Statements" such companies make, of questionable legal worth, are so full of holes anyway that such data can be exchanged to allow the build up of powerful data amalgams.

But that's OK: just remember it is our Gov't and its agencies that are evil.  (And the US gov't of course - that goes without saying)." .. the message is that coal will degrade economic prosperity and ultimately lower currently affluent societies into poverty"

I am sure that is the "message".

I keep getting messages when I want facts.  I assume from the use of the word "ultimately" that this lowering into poverty is some way off?  Can I have a date?  A decade?  A century?

Also, the "message" re lowing prosperity should be made to an Indian village wanting to be connected to the national grid.  Or an African wanting a dependable power source for her business.

They are the ones who will suffer while the search for cheap baseload power continues.  Of course, had we continued with the development of nuclear power instead of being frightened off in the 60s, we would probably have a solution now.  But that is another story of emotionally based panic decisions taking us down the wrong road.'[Bishop's philosophy] emphasises every individual's responsibility to do the very best we can, and if we fail it's not society's fault but due to our own limitations - be they in capability or effort."

Isn't the whole point of feminism that there are systemic imbalances favouring men over women (i.e. it is society's fault) and that these imbalances should be addressed?

Bishop's philosophy is not feminism and - if it is based on Liberals' principles - then the right does not believe in feminism. This is why feminism barely involves anyone on the right.I can only agree.

And wish that a fraction of the energy spent in faux outrage were to be invested in real offences against women.I think you are confusing cause and effect.

It is because we have a manageable immigration policy (or at least we do now) that we have avoided the problems that have brought about  the rise of authoritarianism in Europe.

Until one visits Europe and sees the impact of millions of economic migrants, many of whom do not wish to integrate, one cannot understand why the citizens might vote for anyone who claims to be able to stop it.For heaven's sakes: can you keep your anger about  the only island of stability and decency in the ME under control?

The article is a fairly balanced description of the situation of minority groups in Hungary.  If there are any Palestinians there I am sure they are just as worried.

Raising the myth of the "murderous Israeli regime"  (isn't it a government? - I suppose you think "regime" sounds as though it is some sort of fascist system) is simply ridiculous.

BTW: how many Israelis have taken to running down and killing women and babies lately?  If you are looking for murderers in the region you are looking in the wrong place.None have done anything to me.  But that has nothing to do with it: I care for others, even Israelis.

Lebanon is hardly stable and Turkey is not in the Middle East.

As for Dubai: have a look at its legal system and discrimination against "guest workers".

And we trade a lot with China - that we do so does not mean we endorse its politics.This whole article is based on the legal fiction that a foetus suddenly becomes a human being if it is born and takes an unassisted breath.

At any time before that it has no more rights than a woman's fingernail.

So obviously Ms Ford has no problem with her reasoning.  Her initial assumption makes the logic clear.

Unfortunately for her, there are many things that go against her.  FAS is not rare: a recent article found that in some Aboriginal communities it is getting to 50% of all live births.

And the "clump of cells" view is not helped by the huge number of women who have miscarriages and mourn their lost children for decades.  Are all these women victims of the patriarchy?

The main issue, however, is the conclusion that a woman can destroy the hope of another human being having the life that they may have enjoyed, and simply laugh it off and have another drink.

The authorities are not asking for the world.  If you decide to have a baby, just abstain from drinking for 9 months.  Is that too much to ask?  If it is, don't have children: you are not yet ready for the responsibility.

But if you decide to do so anyway, society, which will have to care for and sort out the problems of your child, will not be happy.  Not some "patriarchy in the sky", but normal men and women who are upset that someone could be so selfish.Not all of it - there is one country that stands out in its modernity and its secular government, its sexual, religious and political freedoms.

You know, the one that the UN spends all its time criticising, and that is apparently the cause of all the problems in the area."I dream of Egypt that is inclusive [of] all its diversities"

What?  Egypt got rid of all but a couple of hundred of its Jews by a combination of murder and expulsion.

It has paused its persecution of the Copts since the military overthrew Morsi but will no doubt start again as soon as it can.

What diversity will be left?

I suppose they can have holidays in Israel to see some real diversity.  Perhaps while there they could think of what they could have had if they tried to emulate Israel instead of destroy it."The fact that Labor supporters think that Turnbull is their best operative is the very reason why the Coalition is so much against him. So much for any thought of unanimity"

The fact that Liberal supporters think that Abbott is their best operative is the very reason why Labor is so much against him. So much for any thought of unanimityFor once I agree with most of Mr Green's article - perhaps Mr Abbott's call for a mature debate has had its first convert.

But his choice of Mr Pearson's paean to a fallen hero as an example of testing "ideas against realities" was unfortunate.

It displayed a distinct lack of testing anything, more like a hagiography than any sort of review of achievements.

To be blunt, he should have asked the question, what did the Whitlam government do to improve the lives of those who claim indigenous descent?  The answer: very little.

A small group emerged who were educated and achieved a lifestyle comparable to the rest of Australians.  The majority were condemned to a form of apartheid, if only economic, through the adoption of the remote communities as the appropriate way of keeping a culture alive.

No improvement in health, education, employment or any other "real " measure: in fact I would not be surprised if they deteriorated.  The squandering of the good will evidenced by the success of the 1967 referendum by not treating indigenous people as equal, but as different.  By setting them apart, by making laws based on "race", the seeds of a victim culture were sown, as well as the perception by some that a group of citizens were given preferential treatment.

There is nothing wrong with ideas, and they are far better than argument, whether against advantage or change.  (I am so glad that Mr Green has publicly stated that "reform" is not the correct word).  But as he stated, ideas must be tested against reality, not simply admired, regardless of consequences.

The tragedy of the Whitlam years is that so many good ideas were pushed through without enough thought.  Free tertiary education, nationhood for PNG, increases in pay levels, fault free divorce, the list goes on.  All wonderful ideas, and all things that had to be done.  But only after the ground work had been done.  That was Whitlam's fatal flaw: a reluctance (or refusal?) to do the dull, boring preparatory work needed before any idea can by implemented.

We do need ideas, but as Mr Green states in his opening paragraph, they need to be tested against reality.  Preferably well before they are put into effect.You forgot any mention of increases in progressive taxes ( income taxes, stamp duties etc) and reductions in regressive taxes (GST).

Apparently some areas are not mature enough to be discussed.Perhaps because GST is a regressive tax that hurts the poor far more than the rich.

Had Mr Abbott suggested a reduction or narrowing of GST to be paid for by a crackdown on income tax exemptions and deductions (negative gearing, trusts, superannuation etc) he would have had more support.

In case you missed the point: Mr Abbott was not attacked for wanting to change the GST, he was attacked for wanting to increase it.

We do need a mature discussion of tax, but that does not mean excluding anything that the richer members of the community want to retain.

For example, why is capital treated far more leniently than labour when it comes to tax?  I would suggest that a tax on financial transactions, specifically share transfers, was a far better idea than an increase in GST.

How about a mature discussion on why share gambling is beneficial to the nation?  How about a special tax levy on all gambling, whether in shares, pokies, racing, casinos etc?  

Or split rates for GST?  50% GST on all vehicles greater than 4 cylinders?  (We could discuss exemptions for those who need to travel long distances).  50% GST on SUVs that serve no purpose other than to give some people the impression they are above the commoners?  50% GST on alcohol? 50% on luxury yachts?

Amazing what one can consider when one takes a mature look at the possibilities.  And no need for regressive taxes that hurt the weak.While I am all for uplifting speeches they are not enough.  There is a group in Australia that seem to think that symbolic event are all that are needed.  As the "Apology" speech demonstrated, fine words achieve nothing if not followed up.

We need practical ideas with real things done and evaluated.  We have had enough talk.

That Mr Perason's speech glorified someone who excelled in ideas and performed abysmally in deeds is perhaps indicative of the problems we face.

I have seen 40 years of indigenous people living in a manner that should never have been allowed in this country.  During that time dozens of uplifting speeches have been made and many symbolic acts have been carried out.

None did anything to change the situation, and in my opinion many made it worse.

Could we now try to do something practical to improve education, health and employment for some of the most needy in our society?  To treat them as equals rather than some special "race" needing special treatment might be a start.We are repeating the mistakes of 40 years ago.

All the talk of incorporating racial differences in the Constitution demonstrates that we have learned nothing.

We need to treat people as people, not members of particular "races".  We need to treat all people equally, not have different standards for different "races".

History is not for fun - it is how we learn from the past.One example: the removal of discriminatory  wages to Aboriginal workers.  A good and moral decision, and one that should never have had to be made.

But it was made at the same time as agricultural wages were rocketing skywards.  Again a good decision, and one long overdue.

The result, however, was that it became far more economical to use machines and more specialised workers than to rely on labourers and stockmen.  Many agricultural areas were depopulated as the workers headed to the cities.  Most Aborgines lost all hope of gainful employment.

Most non-aboriginals found work by moving.

Aborgines, however, were encouraged to stay away from where work might be found.   This was out of a misguided belief that the culture could only be protected in this way.   Missions were renamed "remote settlements" and large groups settled around them.  They became dependent on gov't subsidies, cut off from society, as no thought was given as to how the inhabitants would ever gain employment.  I would actually go so far as to believe it was thought better that Aborigines not join the work-force as this might damage their links to their culture.

Shortly afterwards, the "aborigines as victims" movement took over a once proud people, and that has led to many of the problems we and they face today.

In 1967 Australians voted to include Aborigines: after the Whitlam years they were seen as different and to need to be treated differently.

Only when we once again treat all Australians equally will we have a chance to lift those who currently suffer because they feel they are not really Australian like everyone else.As I thought was quite clear in my post, the gov't did not order people to stay - how could it?

I used the word "encouraged".  I don't know how I can make it clearer than that.  They told the Aboriginal people there was no need to move to find jobs: the gov't would pay them to stay where they were and would build homes and provide facilities.

As for the claim I somehow supported unequal pay: can I suggest you reread the post?  Again, it is quite clear that I supported the equal pay measures.  What else could I have meant by calling a good, moral decision?

What I was pointing out was that, as with so many of the Whitlam decisions, it was not thought through.  So many gainfully employed Aborigines, proud of their skills and ability to support themselves and their families, ended their days sitting in hopeless communities, with nothing to do but drink.

I don't like to be personal, but try reading before posting.  My post cannot be understood to mean what you represent.Again, I thought my post was clear.  Such enticements made it very hard for Aborigines to move to where there was work.  Had such an offer been made to laid off non-Aborigines, no doubt we have large numbers of unemployed (and unemployable) "whites" in uneconomic settlements.

As for the "white bureaucrats": perhaps if you read some of the output from the Dept of Aborginal Affairs (or whatever it was called 1972-1975) you may be enlightened about their attitude to aboriginal culture.

Giving Aboriginals "autonomy"?   Are you saying giving them a level of rights above those of the rest of the community?

If so, yes I am dead against it.  Anything that forces me and any other Australian to decide the "race' of the person with whom I dealing is anathema to me.

Giving different rights to different persons based on race is the surest way to breed racism I can think of.A quibble: your analogy clearly fails on one point.

Nobody has done anything about immigrants.  Australia continues to welcome hundreds of thousands of immigrants.  All parties support the continuation of such policies.

You may have meant the enforcement of immigration laws, but that is not the same thing.The latest surveys show that now that the influx of self selected immigrants has ceased, the pubic approval of the current level of immigration has increased back to its normal high levels.  That is, about double the level of support found in Spain, Greece, the USA, Britain etc.

Whether they contain many misogynists depends, I suppose, on your definition.  They may contain many who approve of FGM, or they may look at their notes when Ms Gillard is trying to deflect attention from her defence of a man who clearly despised women.Rich AND Christian?

Is there no end to his sins?

Seriously, can we lift the level a bit?

What would be the reaction had I referred to someone as "Rich and Muslim" in a way that showed my displeasure at both?I would like to comment, but as "white" male I hardly dare.  As I am often told, from my position of "privilege" I cannot comprehend the problems of women, nor of those of a different ancestry.  Why this is so is not clear. 

All I would say is that while millions of young girls are being mutilated for cultural reasons, it seems a little self-indulgent to have a bitter argument over what seems a relatively minor issue among those who claim to be working for women's rights.

How about forgetting about whether a hypothetical woman of some colour other than "white" could make similar comments without the same response and caring about real women in the real world.

If FGM is too big, a bit of time for indigenous women being killed on a weekly basis by their partners might help.  Of course we get a huge outcry about one woman dying in custody, and rightly so, but I cannot help but feel that we are skipping over much greater problems because there is no "white" person to blame.

Oh well, back to my shelter to escape the "Of course you don't understand, you are the problem" attacks.

And feminists wonder why they are losing support in the community as a whole.It is often forgotten how much "the Bush" were against the Whitlam gov't.

At the time of the dismissal I worked near a small farming town and remember clearly that in the 1975 election there were four votes for the ALP out the more than 500 who voted.

Everyone knew that one couple were die-hard ALP supporters but the identity of the other two voters was a mystery.  The general theory was that they belonged to two blokes who voted after a long session at the pub.You forgot the absolute insanity of walking out of PNG when it was nowhere near capable of self-government.

If there was ever an example of a morally right and pragmatically wrong decision (and Whitlam had a lot of those) this was it.

His comments on Baltic immigrants and Vietnamese refugees also revealed a somewhat small minded and vindictive streak.Julian Burnside and Richard Flanagan?

Those two would not lead to a Constitutional crisis, they would have rioting in the streets within weeks.

Thankfully the Australian public will only tolerate a certain amount of lunacy in Parliament, as shown by the pathetic results for the Julian Assange party.

At least Gough had a sense of humour." ... demand that government instead protect us against those who seek ever more of our private information."

I agree completely.

Start with prosecuting "New Matilda", follow up with anyone who sells lists of email addresses or other information obtained by in-line purchasing etc

This obsession with the gov't holding some metadata is bewildering.  Commercial interest own and trade far more information and have done so for years.  They know far more about you than how many phone calls you made or to whom.  

Yet nobody cares when they sell this information to anyone with the cash.

Is it some assumption that the gov't is always doing bad things but the commercial information traders only act on you behalf?
The information to trace you already exists - the ABC holds it.  Yet the thought that another gov't body might hold not the information itself, but a method of obtaining it, concerns you.

I suppose that as an anti-Monarchist you could be justified in your faith that the ABC would respect your wish for privacy.  Those who hold views that most ABC employees find obnoxious, for example that we should enforce our immigration laws, might not be so relaxed.

People seem to be getting up in arms about some potential small scale breach of their privacy when we are already seeing citizens having their privacy breached for political purposes, not by the gov't, but by those who oppose the gov't.

On a personal note, I have found monarchists to be quite peaceful, if a trifle eccentric.  It is some of my fellow supporters of a republic I find alarming in their intensity and their hatred of those they consider to be "privileged".Why get excited about what may happen when we already have a situation where those who are seen as supporters of the government (Mr Abbott's daughter, Professor Spurr) have their personal information stolen and used for political purposes?

That is all I am saying.  Should I be more worried about what the gov't may do at some undetermined time in the future, or what those opposed to the government currently do now?

Note that I haven't even touched on the dangerous activities of the most prominent disclosers of private information, Messrs Snowden and Assange.

Yet you apparently find all these OK.

I suspect it is not privacy you are protesting about but simply another way of attacking and criticising a gov't you dislike.You have confused me - are you really calling for front line police officers to have no obligation to follow orders but to do whatever they feel "the public" would want them to do?

So if a crowd is baying for blood, summary execution?

Or is it just the whole concept of obeying orders that you find abhorrent?  

Unfortunately for you, that is how every society works.  Their are no "ruleless" societies, and in anything but the smallest social groups, those rules translate into orders.

Personally, the idea of a police force not subject to orders from senior officers with experience and ability, and responsible to elected representatives of the public, is frightening.

That sounds more like a lynch mob than civilized society.I think you are getting confused - I don't think the police are the problem.  Perhaps you mean Malcolm and his fears we live in police state?
Personally I am far less concerned that some-one could access my metadata than I am that "New Matilda" can currently obtain my actual emails and print them with impunity.

That the misguided person who decided (or was encouraged by persons unknown) to steal information on PM Abbott's daughter has pleaded guilty is no doubt a plus, but that the publisher can get away scot free is a concern.

Had a substantial penalty resulted, it may have prevented the same magazine using other allegedly illegally obtained information to attack a person who had the temerity to speak his mind on education poilicy.

Before complaining about some minor potential breaches of privacy, how about some action about the current laws that don't seem to work at all?

Or is it that the Drum posters only worry about their own privacy?  That the privacy of those whom they oppose politically have no right to privacy at all?Where did I demand sanctions against news reporting?

I would love the media to report news.

Getting involved in theft of information to attack those who have been asked to provide policy advice is not "news", it is theft for political purposes.  The outcry about the release of private information owned by the more politically acceptable Senator Peris demonstrates that for some it is the victim that determines the crime.

I would hazard a guess, based on the gratuitous "Murdoch" comment, that you were up in arms over the Sunday Times scandal.  That also involved the theft of private information.  The only difference was that it was phone calls rather than emails.

But you apparently believe that as long as you dislike the person, he or she has no right to privacy.

Another fertile field, with far more to be discovered.

PS How about a novel idea.  If you disagree with someone's policies, you attack the policies?  That you dislike the person's emails has nothing to do with their professional work.

Personally I find the political views of Noam Chomsky repulsive and verging on the insane, but his work on linguistics is magnificent.  Should I not recognise his contribution to human knowledge because I believe he is wrong in his anti-Western crusade?As I said, I can see no public interest in Prof Spurr's emails.  I have no idea of his politics, but suspect they differ from mine considerably.  The content of the emails is, however, obviously an indication of his sense of humour.  It may not be yours, but that is not the point.  He claims they were a joke between friends - I have seen no evidence to the contrary.

For you to claim those jokes are his "opinions" is simply ludicrous.  You cannot make things up as you go.  Do you have some secret source of information?  

As it is, I see no link between the emails and his advice to the government.  Note he does not set policy - he is merely advising.  

I also note you have no position on Senator Peris's emails, which point directly to racist views incompatible with her position as an elected representative, and her willingness to divert funds intended for those less well off to provide personal benefits for herself.  Definitely in the public interest.  Or are racist views about "whites" OK?

As for "poor old Noam": his support of totalitarian dictators who murder their own people is probably what upset me.  And his support of terrorists who murder the innocent.

But, as I said, I can overlook these views when considering his professional work.

I suggest you do the same for Professor Spurr, who is the only one to have suffered so far in the "privacy war".  The man whose only crime was to speak publically on the parlous state of education in this country, and has had his career ruined (or at least badly damaged) for doing so.

I think Professor Spurr and Senator Peris may consider that having someone know they sent an email to a certain address is less of a concern than having the contents of that email splashed across the nation's front pages.

That is what I mean by "a minor breach of privacy".  (You left out the "potential" - is that because you don't like to be reminded that all this is speculation - nothing has actually occurred to spark this panic?

We currently have major breaches of privacy, yet I don't see calls on these forums for repeat offenders such as "New Matilda" being subject to harsh penalties.

Are you sore it is privacy you are worried about?Of course I agree with some limitations on personal rights: that is how society works.

So no issue re public interest disclosures of private info.

Where we differ is on what constitutes public interest (as opposed to political advantage or public prurience)

I believe their is no public interest in revealing the content of emails from a citizen who is having what seems obvious to me is a long held jocular conversation with a friend.  

You seem to believe these emails are evidence of his personal opinions.  I say that as nothing to corroborate such "opinions" has been published, it would appear much more likely that his version is correct.  "New Matilda" hasn't shown any evidence of such in his published work or from his students.

So the only facts against him are he advised the government and that some of his advice is not liked by some other citizens.

Note: he is not a person in the public sphere, he has never to my knowledge sought election, never even made public political statements.

Yet he has been targeted for "public interest".  What is it that makes his private  emails legitimate?  Nothing.

It is just that some people dislike his advice and so that makes it OK.

As for "New Matilda", I took a dislike to its publishing policy when it disclosed stolen personal information relating to the daughter of the PM.  Again, no real "public interest", no evidence of wrongdoing, just a slur.

Had the editors done some work, built a case showing political preference or corruption: fine.  But all they did was publish information to put the PM, through his daughter, in a bad light.  And then allow the "fall girl", the misguided individual who pleaded guilty to stealing  the information, to be convicted alone.

So that is why I mention "New Matilda": it is a symbol of the sort of "journalism" I detest.  No effort, politically slanted "shock horror" stories.  With little or no public interest.

As for "investigative journalism": where is that in the Spurr story?Normally I would just roll my eyes at a post such as this and move on, but sometimes one must make a stand for facts and accuracy.  I hope the ABC monitor has the same view.

The "loophole" used has been there all the time and was specifically placed to allow such actions.  It is used often, and without much comment.  For example, the "alcopops" tax measure used the same "loophole".  Changes to classification of goods often uses regulation as it is quicker and avoids speculators making a killing.  To attribute some sort of stealthy smart-dealing is a bit much.

What is, in my mind, reprehensible, is the threat that that the oil companies will get a windfall gain if the regulation is not confirmed by the legislature.  That is pure wedge politics.

As for the "Sh*t happens", that was not uttered by Mr Abbott when "caught in a lie".

It was when discussing the death of a soldier with his comrades in Afghanistan.  Despite the media outrage, it is quite clear from the video clip that Mr Abbott's statement was accepted by those present as a typically Australian understatement, a sign of empathy and sympathy expressed not in a Whitlamesque flowery phrase, but a couple of words for an occasion when only a few words were needed.

If you wish to criticise Mr Abbott (and I have plenty of criticism for him, starting with  the budget, broken promises on free speech etc) please criticise him for real errors, not made up events and confected ire.Given that it was western civilisation that not only allowed him to live but to prosper, if he did that say it was pretty ungrateful.

Had any other power other than a Western liberal democracy been ruling India at the time, he would have been executed after organising his first protest.I am glad someone else sees through Brand's pseudo-intellectualism.

He is simply a demanding child who, not happy that all his wishes are not obeyed, wants to up end the toy box.

Brand has a range of views, many supported by fringe groups but clearly disliked by the majority of his fellow citizens.  Despite being "articulate and charismatic" he cannot (or can't be bothered) to convince enough voters to support his desired policies.  So he gets in a huff, declares the system doesn't work and suggests the anarchist solution: blow it all up and start again.

I don't agree with all your points re UKIP (I have no issue with defending one's culture from destruction, but some of its members seem to be more concerned with "race".)

But one thing is clear - UKIP has far more support than Brand.

I suspect Brand doesn't like democracy because he considers most people to be his inferiors in all respects.So if I am a councillor and use my position to have a road upgraded near a friend's house it is OK, as long as all the money spend is shown to be on the road works?

Come on.

And what about the clear racism?  Prof. Spurr claims his was an attempt at humour - it is at least arguable.  Nothing humorous about Ms Peris's views on "white people".

Can you imagine the outcry had a senator made a similar statement about aboriginals?

As for the outcry about how the emails were obtained: I assume it was exactly the same way Mr Assange and Mr Snowden obtained their documents.

Yet many of those posting here were ferocious supporters of these men - speaking of their heroism.It is quite clear from the emails what the purpose of the visit was, and that the public reason was just to obtain the funds.

That the money was spent as publicly stated is not the issue - nobody has accused Ms Peris of theft.  

What you should consider is whether, having known all the facts, the same decision would have been made.  If I suggest my employer use particular supplier with whom I have a relationship and keep that relationship secret, is it OK if al the money spent is "audited"?

And you seem completely oblivious to a key point: the blatant racism expressed by someone who is now, thanks to MS Gillard, an elected Senator.Years on, the myth of the "illegal war" continues.  Can you please  identify the law broken and the parties you want charged and then contact the relevant authorities.  that is the normal course when an offence has occurred.

After all this time you must have been able to put a rock solid case together.

You do have a broken law, evidence etc?

If not, stop this irrelevant nonsenseI don't identify with either.  But then I am not obsessed with race as are some of the "it's all our fault" brigade.

I attribute different motives to Breivik and Islamic extremists not because of some "feeling" but because of the evidence.  

I thought it was Australian passports that were being cancelled?

Are you telling me that all these people do not consider Australia to be "home"?  Most, as far as I am aware, were born here.

Probably true, but pretty much destroys the argument that it is "us" that considers "them" to be different.

As I have argued elsewhere, we are quite happy to accept them: they do not want to be part of our culture but consider Australia merely a safe and easy place in which to live.You could start with his book "After the Cataclysm".  In this, he basically denies the stories of the survivors and paints a picture of a glorious revolution against imperialism

A typical line:

".. is it proper to attribute deaths from disease and malnutrition to the Cambodian authorities?"

Those who died in their millions as a direct result of the policies of the Pol Pot regime might consider it is proper.  Only someone convinced that all the ills of the world are sourced in the USA would even ask the question.60 million civilians in "incessant wars" by "the West" since WW2?

Any evidence or a figure plucked from the air?

To the best of my knowledge, most deaths in war since WW2 occurred in China (civil war), the Congo Wars and the Iran-Iraq war, closely followed by the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.

The most casualties involving a "Western" nation was the North Vietnamese invasion of South Vietnam, which was primarily a civil war.  Or possibly the Algerian war of Independence.

Or do you have some secret historical source?Be very careful - I suspect that to support "assimilation" is now considered on a par with racism, misogyny and fascism.

New Matilda will trying to find someone with access to your emails.Whether the poster is a Believer or not is immaterial.  The post merely stated a fact: Al Gore used fear to build a campaign.  Remember the flooded cities, the desolate landscapes?

Yet Mr Cassidy uses: 

"Tony Abbott was elected off the back of a fear campaign over the carbon tax."

Mr Abbot actually won despite a Greens fear campaign over climate by merely pointing out the cost of the tax and that it achieved nothing.  (The ALP had given up the charade.)
Au contraire Theos, Mr Cassidy brought up AGW and climate change in his article:

"Tony Abbott was elected off the back of a fear campaign over the carbon tax."

Pf course, in his enthusiasm to have a go at Mr Abbott, he got it wrong.  Mr Abbot ran a factual campaign about the cost and effect of the tax - the Greens ran the fear campaign about the drowning polar bears and thousands of cyclones.I thought Julian Assange was much older than 17.As I understand it, one of the murderers suffered from mental illness.  

Yet he only started murdering people after his conversion to the religion of peace, the same religion as his fellow murderer.

Seems reasonable enough to me to mention the fact.With Breivik the interesting thing was what didn't happen.

Nobody came forward to say:

"What did we do wrong?  What did we do to drive this young man to this state, to think this was the only thing he could do?"

Nobody said:

"This is the fault of the authorities.  This could have been predicted.  How can we change things to stop this happening again?  How can we give in to his demands?"That could create quite a fuss.

12% of all murders (and 15% of all murderers) are indigenous, while females represent 70% of all murdered indigenous people (compared to less than 50% of other women).

So a very large number of those door-knockings by police would be in indigenous doors.

I can just hear the howls of outrage at such police racial profiling.Isn't that the point?  He did keep his jokes to himself and those who found them funny.

Only when his views on the curriculum outraged the staff at the New Matilda were the completely unrelated jokes made public.  (I have seen it said that they had known of these for several years but decided to release them recently but cannot verify this).

A clearer example of political "ad hominem" attack would be harder to find.

How many others who hold views that the New Matilda editors disagree with will be cowed into silence?  New Matilda has obviously decided anything goes in destroying its perceived enemies.Can you point me to any evidence that the Professor's work has been affected by his sense of humour?

Pointing out that Plato or Shakespeare may have more to offer than any indigenous writer of the past 10 years is hardly controversial, let alone racist.  That it needs to be said at all is the distressing issue.Did you note the lack of response to your comment?  The left tend to ignore reality.

That a poor girl has had her future blighted by her stupidity in providing stolen material to New Matilda is not worthy of comment.

They will still sing the praises of those who benefitted from the theft but managed to escape punishment.

Reminds me of St Julian the Refugee.  (Remember him?  His source is also serving  time.  Though maybe the US jail is more comfortable than the bed-sitting room at the Ecuadorean Embassy).If I understand you correctly, you believe that anyone who contributes in any way to public policy has no right to privacy?

So a speechwriter for say the Leader of the Opposition, a doctor working on health policy for the AMA, a charity worker who makes a submission to a gov't inquiry, a person who writes a letter to the newspaper, all are open to having their personal details spread on the front page?

If nor, where do you draw the line?

I think that all are entitled to privacy.  If you want to criticise the person's opinions, there are plenty of opportunities to scan the public record.

As far as I know, the Professor in question is highly regarded and has never even been accused of sexism or racism on his   professional work.  Is that not enough?

What we have here is a witch-hunt started by those who oppose his recommendations.  Unable to mount an argument against his proposed policy changes, they have resorted to attacking him personally.  

The publication in question has, of course, a history of "leaked" emails, one of its suppliers having recently pleaded guilty to a theft of information relating to the PM's daughter.

One would have thought they had learned.

PS I would much rather have the Gov't possessing my metadata than the New Matilda having open access to my email account.   At least the Gov't says it intends to  use it for security,   New Matilda might use it to attack me if I said something the editor disliked.I have found that people find it hard to believe that the very intelligent get pleasure from "word games" or similar.

Just because you do not does not mean it is not possible.  The emails obviously are a joke, even if we only see one side of them.  They are not intended to offend or provoke anger, or to incite to violence.  They are a more akin the "Your momma" jokes that often descend into extremely scatological areas and could easily be seen as sexist, racist, fattist etc.

Is everyone who exchanges such jokes an evil person who deserves no place in an educational institution?  I was once given a email containing hundreds of "Blonde jokes".  Should that person be vilified?  (She was in fact blonde and appreciated that none of the jokes were intended to be taken seriously but were all plays on words or portraying people in such a manner that was obviously unbelievable).

This is just a beat-up: the "left" for want of a better word  attempting to punish someone for stating something they dislike.  For some time I have suspected many of the "left's" problems stem from a lack of humour, even a lack of an ability to recognise humour.  This confirms my suspicions.As I understand it, Professor Spurr states neither he nor the recipient provided the emails.

That seems to give at least a prima facie case.

New Matilda won't say where they came from, just they weren't hacked.  

Only a week or so ago a young woman has seen her future blighted as she admitted to stealing information which was provided to New Matidla and then published.

On that basis, I know who I would sooner trust.

So Spurr may well be advised by AG Brandis, who I believe has a good grasp of such matters.   (Though hopeless political nous).Glad others see this for what it is: breaching privacy for political purposes.

Had the good Professor been one of the thousands of "leftish" academics, not a word would have been published by New Matilda.  There are dozens of academics with appalling records of sexism at out universities who are probably laughing themselves silly that a man with not one accusation of sexism is being pilloried because his private "word games" have been made public.So if I defend my wife or children publicly and then, in private, argue with them about the same issue, I am not trustworthy?

A member of Cabinet, bound by Cabinet solidarity, is by definition untrustworthy?

But that is by the by.

The issue here is that there is no evidence that the Professor actually believes any of the things in the emails.  He says it is a joke between old friends.  In the absence of any evidence to the contrary, I would have to accept that.  It is a reasonable explanation that has not, to my knowledge, been refuted.

So there is no reason for New Matilda to breach his privacy, other than to destroy someone whom they see as a political enemy.

Should all others who hold opinions contrary to those of the editor and staff of New Matilda fear to open their mouths in case their personal affairs are splashed over the internet?For once an article on the Drum with which I whole heartedly agree.  A story highlighting a person's courage and what we can learn from it.  That discusses another person's inadvertent error (and apology) and instead of blaming, seeks to educate.

No rage, no false claims, no derogatory comments, no appeals for money, no blame shifting, no gratuitous comments on subjects dear to the author's heart but of no relevance.

Oh how I wish we had more such articles.  Some of the regular contributors (you know who you are) could learn a lot from Mr Wilson.

My only complaint is that the Mr Abbot's support of Group Captain McGregor was not highlighted.  Given prominence of the "If you hate Tony Abbot .. " crowd on this forum, it could have been emphasised.

I look forward to scores if not hundreds of posts congratulating the PM on his stance in support of transgenders and apologising for the ludicrous and ill informed comments that have been made on this forum about his attitudes to women, gays and other groups in society.

Just because he does not issue a press release on gender issues every day does not mean he ignores them or does not have heartfelt empathy for them.Thank you for the correction.  I did wonder about the use of the word as a noun, but "transgender people" sounded clumsy.  I will just have to get used to it.  

My po9int about Mr Abbot was more that the only evidence I have seen about his personal opinions on women, gays or transgender people is positive.  In the absence of any evidence to the contrary, I take it he does empathise and sympathise.

That politically he has not moved very far is, in my opinion, understandable for someone who is a first term PM with some antediluvian members (Mr Andrews?) who froth at the mouth at any mention of sex, gender or individual rights.  Give him time and some policy change will come.Let's have a look at a prominent one: refugees.

Greens: open door, just say the word "Asylum" and you're in.  If you need help, a friendly lawyer will say it for you.

Whitlam: refused to accept real refugees fleeing totalitarianism and labour camps in Vietnam as he disliked their politics.

How about East Timor?  Or exploiting natural resources?I will explain.

That you have been called a misogynist does not make you a misogynist.

To be shown to be a misogynist it is necessary to provide proof.  No proof is required to make an entire speech on misogyny.

When the word is slung around as a general purpose accusation it becomes meaningless, just as "racist" and "fascist" are now completely worthless as defining anything.  they now mean something like "I disagree with you" or "I can't fault your logic, but I disagrees".  Or just "I hate you!  You stink!".It is a not uncommon morphological fact that a compound word has a meaning different from one or other of its constituent words.  For example, "pot-boiler" has nothing to do with either pots or boiling.

I have always understood a "girlie-man" to be a sort of man that one doesn't want to be.  Nothing really to do with women or girls, but a particularly biting insult for a man lacking in bravery or self confidence.

But then I don't go searching for misogyny or racism as do many who write for the Drum.  And I have a well-used sense of humour.

That Drum writers cannot imagine that someone might think it funny to emulate/self deprecate the famous Arnie quote is more revealing of the writers than anything else.  (BTW, Mr Cormann is Belgian and his accent is definitely not German.  He may be offended by this inaccuracy.)

It is the same with the fuss over Professor Spurr's private emails.

(Are those excoriating him over his sense of humour the same people who were up in arms about the horror of ASIO obtaining metadata about emails?  They have no issue with the loss of privacy experienced by Prof Spurr.  Why no demands for a full judicial enquiry? Or is it OK to breach the privacy of those they dislike?).

I can quite easily see how two friends with a similar sense of humour could develop over time a form of communication that would be incredibly amusing to each other as each tried to outdo each other in absurdity.  The Goons mastered the art 60 years ago.

Nobody to my knowledge had alleged that the Professor has ever shown any evidence of misogyny or racism in his public life or his dealings with others.  So why is his explanation treated with derision?

I suspect his political views are to blame.  For example, we recently had a Prime Minister who wholeheartedly supported someone who made some quite revolting comments about women.  I believe Ms Penny Wong was quite staunch in her defence of the same man.

So I must conclude this is just a charade - using an unlawful breach of privacy to obtain details of an in-joke that, sampled and edited, portrays someone in a bad light.  Not for some higher purpose, but just for political gain.

The same applies to this article.  Plucking a few words out the air to make a political point.  Had Mr Cormann been a shadow minister, I somehow doubt Ms Wong and the other "feminists" would have said a word.Mr Green's article definitely did show his intolerance of others.  He throws the "racist" insult at virtually anyone who disagrees with his views.  (Though how it is racist to advise someone who dislikes this country to stop moaning and instead leave is beyond me.  Is it a link to "whining Poms?")

So it ties in well with this article which does not refute the original article but pretty much admits its truth.  It just claims that that journalists should not be restricted by such bourgeois constructs such as truth or objectivity.If that were the case, I suspect Ms Sainty would not get a good mark.

I fear, however, that if she spouts enough of the "right" views, she will start her career with honours.

What that career would be is another thing,  I sincerely hope it is not as a journalist.

PS Using my own "critical thought", I don't usually accept an unsubstantiated claim of excellence from the author.  That you apparently accept Ms Sainty's claim without question, while denying the truth of the original article, which was backed by facts that have not been questioned, says more about your own level of critical thought than mine.

I saw her claim, evaluated it as unsubstantiated and discarded it.  Just because it is written, does not mean I must accept it.  To think I did not "see" it just silly.Where did I clam that the Tshirts implied a love of Australia?

I merely pointed out that it was more in the nature of "I am sick of your moaning - if you dislike it here to that extent you are free to leave".

I cannot understand your second comment.  The original article in the "Australian" pointed out that the course did not teach journalism but instead concentrated on vilifying some Australian media.  Ms Sainty's article did not refute the original.  That she claims to have learned how to think critically is her own opinion: from her comments I would disagree.  There is no critical examination of the original claims, no marshalling of arguments for and against.

Simply her view that she should only present things she wants, with no reference to truth and objectivity tossed out the door.

You perhaps have the same view of critical thought.  Your accusation of "inbuilt bias" is not supported by anything other than that you disagree with me.

PS Where did I say that Ms Sainty was not entitled to her view?  In the Australia I know and "love" you are able to say what you wish.  And I am quite a liberty to say it that I think it wrong.  Perhaps that is one of things that people want to change?Exactly which "principle of journalism" has the author displayed?

She had just written her opinion.  No effort to assemble facts or the opinions of those with some relevance to the topic and then allow the reader to determine if they are convincing.

The original article by Ms Markson did not just state that journalism course failed to provide education in journalism: it quoted the lecturers and the material provided.

No-one to my knowledge has denied the truth of these statements and I will come to my own conclusion.

I have no problem with Ms Lane publishing her opinions: but that is not journalism.Couldn't agree more.

This article to me confirms the Australian's major point: that the journalism course does not teach how to be a journalist or how to produce good journalism.

It appears from Ms Sainty that she sees journalism as a way of promoting her views to the community at large, while criticising all others.

Did she mention truth?  If she did, it was in passing.  Objectivity was simply shrugged off as some dream not worth considering.

If this is the attitude she takes to her writing and publication I for one will not be reading her.  It is not for her to determine the "inherent bias": it is for the reader.  She can provide the relevant information, that will do.

Otherwise we will have stories like that exposed by the Australian this week, about the Palestinian boy who lost his hands and feet from Israeli bombs.  The truth was that the unfortunate boy suffered a horrible disease which led to amputation, and is being cared for in an Israeli hospital.

A story of deceit (or at least criminal negligence) and of inter-cultural generosity that one would think would be headlined everywhere.

Yet no publicity, even though this is real journalism.  Not promoting one's own view (The original "journalists" did that perfectly).  But determining the facts and exposing lies.

Yes Lane, there is a thing could truth, and while objectivity may be an impossible dream, like so many other impossible dreams it is worth making it your goal.I think you missed my point.

I was trying to show that the story showed true journalism: questioning the source, checking, verifying.

Being driven by a search for truth.

Apparently something not high on the priority of the course attended by Ms Sainty - at least she never mentions it.Just one more thing - is a Facebook page not media?

ISIS thinks it is, so do many others.  Aren't bloggers accepted as being media?

I have never though that the term "media" was restricted to just a few large newspapers and electronic media firms.

"Media" just means "ways of transmitting", usually information.

(Well, it really means "the things in the middle" but let's not get pedantic or fixated on its Latin origin)." ... media study lecturers are not anti-Murdoch they are pro factual reporting."

Strangely, Ms Sainty doesn't highlight the importance of facts in her article.  Apparently you just need to be shown how to think correctly.  which explains a lot for what passes as journalism: look at the world through a prism.

(This week's ABC story on how Italy claims kudos for looking after immigrants when all it does is serve a landing point so it can dump them on the taxpayers of Germany and the UK is a point in question.  Though even that had the decency to stop the pretence that they were "refugees".)

And can you identify which of the lecturers in this course are not ant-Murdoch?

Or are you just making that up?2 hands working are far more powerful then 1000 hands clasped in prayerPossibly those you speak to read the Drum.

From reading the posters here one would think that Australia is a cesspit of racism, homophobia, misogyny etc etc.

I have just one question: if it is so horrible, why is that tens of thousands of would be citizens not only pay large sums to criminals but also risk their lives to get here?  By passing dozens of other countries on their way?

Could it be (and I just post this for the sake of covering all the bases) that Australia is actually seen as one of the best places in the world in which to live?

And that the T-shirts are just saying "Stop moaning: if you don't like it here, you are free to leave."?I think you will find that majority of those Americans who do not publicise their nationality while travelling do not do so because they are ashamed of their country.

They do so because of the large number of those with a psychopathic hatred of all things American, many of whom would physically attack someone merely because of their nationality.

So it is fear of racist attacks that drives the use of such subterfuges.  It ahs nothing to do with the policies of the countries.  One only has to read the mindless vituperation of all things American of some Drum posters to see that such precautions are prudent.

I would consider it far more dangerous to wear an American flag on my clothing than to wear an Islamic veil.v.   I am not sure if you misunderstood my post or are wilfully misrepresenting me.  It is those with a deep seated hatred of the USA that are the problem, not the citizens of the USA, who I have found to be almost universally polite and well behaved.  In contrast to those who froth at the mouth at the mention of the country.

los: I have no idea what you talking about.  Did you read the post?  How can I be inciting conflict when stating that some people are afraid of being attacked?

If I wrote that some Australian Muslims were afraid of being attacked because to the actions of the co-religionists, is that inciting conflict?

It is those who carry out such attacks, whether on Americans or Muslims, that incite conflict.  Not those who mention it.By saying "I think you will find" I thought I made it clear that this was my opinion, based on many discussions with Americans over many years, including pre-Iraq etc.

Perhaps the Americans you meet are different from the ones I met while travelling through their USA.

I know that many Drum posters have a strange idea of what the majority of Australians think, presumably based on their personal discussions with their friends.

Most cannot believe that the Coalition got more votes on policies such as stopping uninvited immigration and getting rid of useless tokenistic taxes.  They prefer to dream that "most" Australians really want an open door policy and a tax that does nothing to alter the climate.
You could compromise.

How about just leaving off the reference to "All Australians" (that is an opinion on which many would differ)?

Then you could just be making a personal statement.

Personally, I struggle to see how a T-shirt that in essence says "I am sick of hearing people moan about how racist, homophobic, misogynist, greedy etc etc Australia is.  If you dislike it that much you are free to leave".

I have heard (and said) similar statements about parties, holidays, nights at the pub, movies etc etc.

Little did I know it was not only racist but also bigoted.I was with a fair way.

But what many of us cannot accept is that change is always good.

I am all for improvement, but before I change I need some evidence that it would be for the better.

And many of those criticising Australia are coming from a position of ignorance.

Perhaps the T-shirts could read "Australia - love it or consider the alternatives".

But the main point has been missed by most.

Woolworths pulled the shirts because of fear of a hysterical outcry by a few misfits.  What will be next?  Would an Australian flag on clothing be enough?  (I would hazard a guess Mr Green and his friends would never be crass enough to wave an Australian flag, though no doubt Aboriginal or Palestinian flags would be fine).

Should we be so tolerant as to allow intolerance to rule?Sorry to dispel your dream world, but China has not applied an import tariff on coal because of some altruistic vision of a coal free world.

It has imposed tariffs to protect and boost its own coal industry that was suffering because of imports of cheap and high quality coal imports.

Had it wanted to reduce coal use it would simply close coal powered power stations.  (It has total authority over the economy).

Unlike the ANU, however, it cannot "divest" in this way.  It has a responsibility to provide its citizens with energy.I am a little bewildered by not only this article but also the reaction to the Government's response.

And of course it is the right of the university to get rid of investments if it believes they are unethical.  As far as I know, no move has been made to prevent them from doing so.

However, as the divestment was not made quietly but by public announcement, it was obviously intended to also make a statement about the university's views on mining.  (The companies involved were not just "big polluders" but also gold, nickel etc miners).

So why are we surprised that the gov't makes public statements as well?  

Is the gov't not to contribute to public discussion?  Are only those with "good" views to speak?

I thought the response was quite muted: a few statements about the sanity of the decision and a few questioning the wisdom of the decision makers.  No direct questions about the incongruity of a university that is demanding more gov't funds taking deliberate action to reduce its own income producing ability.  (And it is a reduction: what is the uni going to do with its cash - invest in risky wind farms that only survive because of gov't incentives?)

From reading the posts here, it seems that the many think only views that agree with their own should be made public.

If a beneficiary of public funds acts to reduce its own earning capacity, it is not only right but necessary for the govt to comment.  To be silent would be to tacitly approve or to abrogate responsibility."ANU is demonstrating smarts"

That may be so - time will tell.  My point was that most investors with large portfolios make changes and nobody knows. 

The ANU chose to make public (and political) statements.  That the gov't responded is not evidence of some anti-Gaia frenzy of power, but a reasonable reply to a fairly extreme viewpoint.

The ANU believes that gold, nickel, mineral sands etc as well as coal, oil and gas are bad investments?  Not bad as in immoral, but bad as in uneconomic.  How come the world market has not realised this?

PS If any reader has a portfolio of bluechip energy and mining stocks they feel morally obliged to dispose of, I'll have them if they are cheap.As a Western Australian Humanities teacher, the National Curriculum is the first coherent curriculum I have had to work with in over a decade. After the disaster of OBE and the stopgap K-10, I have found trialling it that the Australian Curriculum is  sound. Chris please drop your ideological arguments against it. The worst thing that could happen is to introduce yet more uncertainty into what we should be teaching.
Thank you.TC, I agree the three cross-curriculum priorities are an attempt to tie the different learning areas together and are artificial in some ways, especially if your a maths or science teacher I imagine, but they are worthy points: Aboriginal Culture, Engagement with Asia and sustainability. My point is the actual specific curriculum is sound and I don't agree it's "left wing". My Year 9s are studying the Industrial Revolution, Federation, World War One and the ANZACS. Hardly leftist claptrap. I'm trying to keep an open mind and work with the Australian Curriculum, you could remove the cross-curriculum priorities and make specific informed changes but my point remains. It is sound and workable, don't throw us back into another decade of chaos for political reasons. Thank you.Joe, don't forget that there is a point in that bell curve where the centre is identified. This dead centre is considered as absolute middle between extremes in intelligence. The centre is known as the average as most people fall within standard deviations of the centre, however when looking at the bell curve for the population, and taking into the account that the population has been measured, it's true to say that 1/2 the population falls below the dead centre of average intelligence, and thus 1/2 population does indeed fall below the dead centre of average intelligence.Affleck showed that while he may be a good actor, he is a hopeless historian and/or analyst.

To claim that Christians have killed more Muslims than vice versa is ludicrous to anyone who can read.  Mr Affleck is obviously unaware that most of the ME was Christian until conquered by the Arabs.  Nor is he aware that for hundreds of years Europe was under attack by Muslims, either by armed forces or the piracy and slavery that made living on the coast dangerous from Greece all the way to Cornwall.

Why do people think that celebrity views are worth any more than those of labourers?

Why do some of our citizens wish to be "others"?  Even to the extent of wearing clothing not required by their religion?

I am continually handed contradictory stories about the dress adopted by some of our population.

First I am told that it is cultural, not religious.  Then I am told that any move to restrict the movement of those wearing the most extreme form is religious discrimination.

I am told that to force those wearing this mode of dress to sit apart from other is also religious discrimination, yet in their own religious buildings they are also forced to sit apart.

Is this cultural, like female genital mutilation, or religious?  Are we discussing a cultural tradition or a religious requirement?"If there is a common thread, it is a lack of connection to mainstream Australian society. The Australian Government therefore must accept that we have failed this section of our younger generation. "

Why?  There is no argument to support this statement.

Why is it always the fault of "mainstream" Australia, a dog whistle term if there ever was one.

Why not just say it again: it is all the fault of you Anglo-Celts.

Nobody else has any self will, nobody else has responsibility for their own actions, nobody else can ever be blamed.

Australia welcomed all as immigrants: some (a minority, restricted to a few cultures that do not wish to join the mainstream) are the problem.  How can this be blamed on "mainstream" Australia?The Labour Party and the Greens love the ABC for obvious reasons- last criticised by Hawke in 1991"Im wondering why Australia feels it needs to play a substantial role, we are a very small country"

Perhaps that question should be directed to the climate change posters.  It makes much more sense there.Thank you for your contribution to thoughtful debate.

Do you have similar views about other nationalities?  For example, Egyptians?  Or Vietnamese?  Or Congolese?  Or would that be "racist"?

Personally I thought both the removal of Al Qaeda's base in Afghanistan and the removal of Saddam Hussein to have been performed brilliantly.  But then I am not such a keen student of military affairs as you.  Could you point out what tactical or strategic failures the US Armed Forces made?

The failure of subsequent attempts to allow the Afghani and Iraqi peoples to determine their own future are clearly political, not military in nature.  Much of the blame for the failure can in fact be assigned to forces other than the US, forces that wished to destabilise the countries in question.

Perhaps that destabilisation could have been prevented by more support, both international by the UN and by local populations that seemed more concerned with casualties than the morality of helping others.Strangely, I found the attempted murder (alleged) of two police officers by a member of a particular group to be far more likely to alter my opinion of that group than any piece of security legislation.

I find a proclamation by members of a particular group that "true believers" kill all others to more likely to alter my perception of that group than any government statement.

I found the murder of a large number of young men from my neighbourhood by members of a large group far more likely to colour my thoughts than any parliamentary discussion.

But then I live in the real world, not the strange "happy land" that ignores what is and concentrates on what should be.The issue was not whether the concern was exaggerated, but whether it was caused by the government.

I simply pointed out that the actions of the group in question were the cause of what concern I had, not any legislation or enforcement action.  I am sorry if that was not clear.

As for the actions of members of other groups, few declare their actions to be called for by their membership, or because of the non-membership of others.

When Eddie McGuire calls for all true Collingwood supporters to decapitate all those who do not follow his team, I will be just as critical.  And just as worried if some follow his advice.No idea what this has to do with whether the gov't is creating division or if it is the actions of some Muslims.

But to put your mind at rest, we don't indefinitely imprison children, I hope the offender on the bus/train was charged an I would take any comment from the UN about human rights with a very big grain of salt.Mr Green seems amazed that the Opposition does not oppose things he dislikes.  He may be not be aware that the ALP does not exist to represent his views but those of its supporters.

He also appears to have not even considered that the Opposition might agree with the Government that the legislation is required and required urgently.  The role of the Opposition is not to oppose per se, but to identify those policies that it should oppose.

Finally, there is the suggestion that ASIO can now do as it wishes with impunity, even to killing innocent people by accident or that the Attorney General could just declare illegal operations to be secret.  With all respect to the SC who commented, I would doubt that the AG could categorise "ultra vires" activities this way.

And I would hope that our media would still report a death caused by such an activity.  Currently reporters break the law when refusing to identify sources - will this moral strength desert them?  I suspect that if such a story were to be published that the government would not enjoy the prospect of a follow up story about how it tried to cover it up.

PS If the legislation (which I admit I have not read) is so extreme, I would imagine a High Court challenge would be quite interesting.  The current bench is quite prepared to keep the Government under control.I was waiting for the "agreeing with the Americans".

Of course we must never agree with the Americans: that is how we show we are independent.  Not by evaluating policy and determining which is best.  Simply check what the US is doing and do the opposite.

It would be laughable except so many apparently believe that agreement with the US is, de facto, a sign of submission.

If Pres Obama said 2+2 =4, any Australian gov't that agreed would be characterised by certain sections of the media and some voters as evidence it was a "fawning lapdog".Are you implying that Jonathan is not omniscient?

Good lord, do you want to destroy the man's confidence in his world view?  Or, like me, do you consider that world view unshakeable, regardless of logic and rationality?Why not ask: "Do you think anything we do will change anything?"

Or "Do you think that the predictions are accurate enough to warrant a massive change in our economy?"

OR "How much are you prepared to pay personally to initiate changes that may or may not do anything?"

As an aside, heard a commentator, (I think from the Greens) this morning talking about sending our forces to Iraq to prevent genocide.  He said that there seemed to plenty of people there already and that our involvement was only symbolic. 

A bit of a change of policy - though Bob Brown was always able to hold two diametrically opposite policies simultaneously.I am glad you stick to the point of argument, forgoing the temptation to resort to person insults.

I only raise the issue of "filthy lucre" because that is what is being demanded as the price of "fixing" the climate.

Were it enough to pray or to think happy thoughts, I would not dare raise the subject of your ire.  But it seems that everything we need to do will cost money.

Not having an awful lot of that commodity, I tend to want some sort of guarantee or surety before I spend it that I will get the return promised.

Does that make me Egoistical? Selfish? 

Not to me, but I suppose only True Believers can detect Evil.  The Dark One is everywhere.What left wing conspiracy?

I am yet to be convinced that anything we do, up to an including the mass suicide of 90% us, will do anything at all to alter the changing climate in the near to middle future.  (50-100 years).

I have seen too many "We need to do something" panics lead to anything being done, on the basis that it is something.Accusing the government of breaking "International Laws" is pretty serious.

Can you point me to the laws that we have broken?

Remember, just because the Human Rights Commission says something, doesn't make its so.  I would have thought that events in the Congo, one of the current group on the council, would have been more worthy of attention than those in  Australia.

I suspect that your claim, however, is more along the lines of the  "George Bush/John Howard/Tony Blair/Politician I dislike is guilty of war crimes" posts that were so popular a while ago.  No charges laid, not even a hint if what laws were broken.

Simply another "I wish the world was like this" post disguised as statements of fact or opinion.That case (involving ASIS) is not, as far as I know, a criminal case.  It is dispute over the treaty and how revenue is split.

Censorship is not criminal offence.  Particularly when the law explicitly allows it.  (Though I assume you are a staunch defender of Mr Bolt).

So I am forced to decide that you have no evidence of any criminal offences and are agreeing with me.I'm afraid that I take a fairly simple view of the world, just based on evidence.

No western leaders charged: fair assumption nothing to charge them with.  To hypothesise that they might have done something that if there had been a law drafted in a way that some people would like, could possibly have led to charges being laid that might if only all the judges agreed with those people is just a little too complex.

It's why I stick away from conspiracy theories: just too hard to grasp once on is on the third or fourth layer of fact free assumptions.

However, never let it be said that I have a closed mind: nominate an International Law that one of out PMs has broken in the past 20 years.  Only one proviso: it must be a law, not an agreement, a protocol or something that some people feel should be a law.
