Sorry Reinhard, I must be missing the point of your post.  I thought Carlton was one of your favoured representatives in the press?

Are you proud of the achievements of Carlton's followers who stormed the bus filled with Jewish school children yesterday showing all the vile racism that the left seems to be so partial to these days?The Wayner rides again!Seems you have better things to do with your time than actually seeking work, or god forbid setting up your own business and perhaps one day becoming an employer yourself?

Guess what.  Taxpayers are starting to think they have greater needs for their tax dollars than the likes of you.  Sound fair?Out of which money do they pay the tax?  Oh that is right, the money they receive from "the Government"....well the government's money is actually someone else's earnings, Kangaroo.  Pure and simple.Too hard, Brad.  Also it is probably against human rights.How about the "unemployed in the city" becoming employed somewhere other than the city?

How is sitting on your backside, helping yourself to a job when one is on offer elsewhere?

Oh, that's right.  You have better things to do with your time, right?Yes, correct Caffe.  Those who contribute more to society than take from it, should be well entitled to question the spending priorities on those who are total net takers.Yes, lets do the maths.

We have 150 jobs on offer and 500 job seekers refuse to take them.

350 job seekers is better than 500.

150 filled job vacancies is better than 150 unfilled job vacancies.
Ivanov, a job is a job.
My first job was nothing like I intended to have for a career.  Rather than say it was "beneath me", I took it and guess what, it opened up opportunities in other roles, other responsibilities and led to the next job opportunity AND gave me something productive on my resume.

Your point is what?  Tell them to sit back and wait for the CEO role at BHP to come up?  Nice one, and good luck with that.So the dole exists primarily to ensure that nobody in society has to pick fruit?  Great, now we are getting somewhere in this debate.

Now, about vilifying those fly in workers who ARE prepared to pick fruit....up the worker, right Ivanov?Counter-productive to productivity?  Are you for real?

I know a few people who are so-called "job seekers" and the best thing that could happen to them is to be shown the importance of actually doing something.  Most young people need good role models and at least a degree of guidance at critical points in their lives.  I cannot fathom how anyone in our society is unable to find something to do if they are not required to attend a work place for over 40 hours every week?So here is a clue, Baz.  Since only a small % of jobs are ever even advertised, what is stopping the unemployed individual, with 40 spare hours up their sleeve, from approaching target employers off their own initiative and making the case for the opportunity to work.

Instead, you fall for the same tired argument that the job must be advertised first, that the opportunity must be made by the employer, and that the prospective employee is just a passive participant in the process, patiently waiting for someone else to create the opportunity. 

And here is the rub, Anubis.

Will work for the dole do worse than not doing anything?  I am not the one looking for the job, but there are plenty in society who should and could be.  What do YOU suggest we do to motivate them to pull a digit out?Gee Graham, I hope you are not also an advocate for open boarder immigration policy.  If only 2% of those unidentified unauthorised arrivals turn out to be ex-militia or trained terrorists, we might be in a lot of trouble in the near future, right?This might surprise you, Would, but some people manage to work up to 60 hours a week, maintain a home, raise children and study part time, AND volunteer as well.  And they pay the taxes that allow you to spend 40 hours a week finding that perfect job."people breaking into your house"...

If the only options that our citizens can see is to receive welfare or resort to crime, this is a huge indictment on our education system, Would.

I thought left wingers were the "great free-thinkers of every generation"?  Seems not.And it might surprise you that not all employers are the same, and not all government objectives are necessarily formulated to make life harder for certain members of society.

If your experiences are as you say, then you of all people should be able to acknowledge the enormous benefit to be gained from being a productive member of society, doing something, anything toward the betterment of their own society.Hey average, how about taking it upon yourself to find a job, rather than expecting society to hand you one on a platter.

You have more than 40 spare hours a week over those who work and pay taxes that fund your welfare.  What part of that is "fair"?Gee Fred, I am not the one claiming that all in the world is unfair because I cant get a job and others who work hard accumulate some wealth over their lifetimes, oh it is so unfair that I should have to apply for more jobs to get the dole.  Just what is the problem with asking those in receipt of something from society - for nothing - actually being asked to do something?  

Yours is just another attempt to close down the entire debate, and to simply vilify anyone who happens to question the socialist view that prevails at the ABC.  

I have just as much right to question the opposition to these measures as you have to question their likely success or otherwise.  And when most of this article is based on anecdotal evidence, the comments will quite rightly reflect it.


And as an employer I can understand why, Brian.

Small business and enterprise creates jobs, not governments.
Government jobs are funded by individuals and enterprises paying taxes, Would.  If you struggle with this concept, I am afraid I cannot help you.Chicken and Egg, Rumpole.

Do the consumers have cash to spend if enterprise do not employ them?
Gee Greg,
A great many of us have to get up each day and present ourselves at work and even perform some menial tasks as part of that contract.  In exchange, we get paid so we can afford to feed our families, pay our taxes and our mortgage.  It's called growing up and paying your way.

You seem to believe that a large and growing section of our society ought not be bound by these restraints.  Why is that.  Do people with no employment have better things to do with their time?  And why do you consider volunteering work to be "menial" anyway?

Is work for the dole any less effective than not, Kerrie?  If not, then why not try it.  Society at least gets more volunteer hours, and the volunteers themselves will get benefits from seeing that others have it worse than themselves.

Who said anything about minimum wages etc etc.  Someone who is currently unemployed, and spends no time doing anything, has 40 odd hours a week more than someone who is working full time to pay taxes.  Yes or No?Would, you do not get rich by "leeching off the rest".....

Most wealth is generated by hard work, sacrifice and a willingness to spend less than you earn and earn more than you need to spend.

Do not condemn those who pay for the welfare in this country just because they have achieved what you refuse to.No jobs in your field?  Or no jobs.

Different things completely, Would.My first three jobs were never advertised, Geoff.  If I had wasted three years waiting for the job advertisement, I would probably still be waiting today.

My advice to anyone looking for work now is to research the company you want to join and get in front of someone in that organisation as often as possible until they agree to give you an opportunity.  And when the opportunity comes along, give it everything you have got, no matter how menial the work, it will always lead to bigger and better things."What happened to Joe Hockey?"

Well he came up against the combined might of the rampantly partisan national broadcaster, Barrie.

When the ABC rarely criticised Gillard/Rudd it was always prefaced by "Tony Abbott claims..."  or "the opposition is negative on the issue of...."  But now, with a LNP government in place, the ABC completely dispenses with the requirement for direct policy criticism to have any connection with either the ALP or the Greens.  Direct policy criticism pours out of the ABC as though it is undisputed fact, with Shorten not even required to make comment (presumably so he is not portrayed as negative and so he is not required to put forward his "alternative").  Cassidy, Green, Faine, Curtiss, Kelly, Colven, Burchill, Trioli, the list just goes on and on.  When, oh when, will the ABC be held to its charter of impartiality?  Clearly not in your lifetime, Barrie.I am currently compiling a collection of ABC editorial and news pieces from the 6 years of Rudd/Gillard Labor which proves the point, Tim P.

Find me just one article on the Drum currently that prefaces the constant anti-Abbott stance with "Bill Shorten believes...."  Or "Hanson Young opposes....".  The ABC now does the bidding for the ALP and Greens by way of direct political comment, and completely ignores the fact that the opposition of elected MPs are the ones who are supposed to be opposing, not the public broadcaster of its own volition.  This is further evidence of a worryingly entrenched bias at Ultimo, and one which Mark Scott ought to be able to appreciate.Except when criticism of Gillard is said to be misogynistic sexist abuse.  Nothing to do with her moral corruption or incompetence.Yeah, cause Rudd and Gillard never had to worry about things like a sustainable budget due to the fact that they knew the tab would be picked up by someone else.

This is the socialist way, live your life on the back of someone else's hard work.  If anyone gets to keep more than 50% of what they earn, then they are greedy parasites, isn't that right, Luap?

On the other hand, entire families for three generations can be sustained by the state in all respects and these are the noble "poor".

We now have more people dependant upon the collective revenue than are contributing to it, and if Bill Shorten is not careful, it will be he who inherets the chalice.If the LNP gets tossed from office on account of a platform of addressing our debt problems, so be it.

The debt growth is not going away, Barrie.  Will you be so hard on Bill Shorten and his incumbent treasurer when they inherit the fiscal mess that is looming, one they inherit by promising NOT to address the debt?  Oh, that is right, we don't have any fiscal problems, do we.

We shall see, what we will see.Never mind the facts, Frank.

The bureau of statistics published figures which show that higher income earners account for more fuel excise taxes than those on lower incomes.  
Green and his followers have been headlong on climate change fear for years.  Any similarities there, Simon?"It could be something to do with a Government struggling to find its feet"

Gee, Jonathan, Could it also be something to do with 7 year old Australian kids being taught to gloat whilst holding aloft the severed head of someone else's father, and the fact that soon these kids will be settled back into our education system as though nothing out of the ordinary has happened.

Seriously, grow up.

George, where would you start in negotiating with such terrorists?  Would you ask them to be flexible about their demands for conversion to Islam or death?  Would you be flexible in their demand for compulsory circumcision of all females between the ages of 16 and 46?  What are the chances that your head would still be connected to your body after your initial "sit down fireside chat"?
Abbott and Morrison and their achievements to date are held in high regard by many Australian voters who elected them, Gerard.

You seem to think our elected representatives owe a greater duty to people of other countries than they do to our own, and it appears that our judicial system agrees with you.  This is presumably why our High Court has open doors for an economic refugee at a moments notice, yet is closed to any Australian citizen unless you are either a multi-millionaire or you a former ALP politician.



Astro, just a little clarification for you:

The UN is NOT a country! 

It is an organisation of unelected individuals claiming to speak for the oppressed of the world, with camps overflowing with the real desperate and damned.  An organisation that can seemingly sit by and watch hundreds of thousands of Africans being murdered through political and religious genocide at the hands of warlords, without any qualms, whilst simultaneously reprimanding Australia for its comparatively humane treatment of 150 economic would be job hunters.

No, Gerard, it is not.  Please could you take Jon Faine, Christine Milne the twin hairballs, Lee Rhiannon and Sarah Hanson-Young with you when you leave?

I just think with so many people trying to come to Australia for economic betterment, it is far more efficient for us to send the Greens to them, don't you agree?Ian, where were you when the ALP stripped further funding from ASIC, just as it announced that ASIC would be also be charged with oversight under FOFA, such as regulation of financial planners providing tax advice? 

You see, if you back a political party on 100% of everything they do without question, and then lambast the regulator who was left with less funding and more responsibilities, then it is you, I suggest, who fails to appreciate the "irony" of Shorten's incompetence and the direct results of his failures.

Every man and his dog tried to tell Shorten that he was heaping too much responsibility onto ASIC without providing additional resources.  I mean the man completely ignored the findings of the ASIC external stakeholders review at the time, which suggested that the regulator had too few resources for the roles it currently had.  So Shorten, in his infinite wisdom, heaped more responsibility onto ASIC whilst giving them less funding, and commentators like you sung his praises from your publicly funded pedestal all the way.

Nice try, but some of us can well recall your failure to question the last government, and here you are running decoy for Shorten again.


Olive, anyone familiar with Verrender's editorial bias in favour of the ALP will appreciate that all the former government needed ever do, was make a big announcement and he was all for it.  Verrender has painted his wagon, he is rightly judged on its colour.

And you continue to talk of watering down FOFA, as if FOFA was some sort of guaranteed solution to all of our financial planning woes.  It most certainly is not.

All that the original FOFA would ever achieve is to make proper financial advice, fee for service, out of the financial reach of the very people in society who need it the most.  Shorten was told of this, again and again.  And yet another of the ALP's many many "unforseen" bi-products of their incompetent legislation was to make ASIC incapable of fulfilling its required responsibilities under the new rules.
Olive, feel free to resort to abuse, you do it so well, and yet always so respectfully.....
Of course Verrender's editorial stance accords always and only with your political viewpoint, that is exactly what I am talking about.  The fact that he now receives taxpayer funding to do so at the ABC is simply par for the course at the public broadcaster.

If Shorten's FOFA succeeds in placing fee for service at the heart of financial advice reforms, then the likes of CBA and all the big players will have the monopoly on providing the service whilst absorbing the costs through other means.  Smaller, independent advisers will be squeezed and priced out of the market and as usual, mum and dads seeking truly independent advice will be left with a narrow range of "in-house" CBA products to choose from, OR be faced with prohibitive fees for truly independent advice service, provided by the same level of young, inexperienced, employee rather than a dedicated, knowledgable and competent adviser.  This concept is not so hard to understand, surely?Sorry, Ann, that is what I meant.  That CBA employees are now, exactly as they were previously, less well equipped to give open, competent and truly beneifical advice to investors than they were prior to FOFA.  Nothing has or will change, except for the pressures on smaller financial planning groups.Thanks, Peter.
But recall that at the time that Shorten was bragging about his FOFA reforms, he and the ALP had a huge army of support from much in the media, including Mr Verrender about outcomes that anyone with any foresight could see were never going to be achievable.  Now these very same journalists are suddenly blaming both ASIC and dilution of minor parts of the FOFA reforms for destroying public protections, when the original reforms, and ASIC's resources were whoefully inadequate at the outset.  It is lazy journalism and complete spin from what some of these journalists trumpeted in support of Shorten and the original FOFA reforms, and I do not agree that it is disingenuous to call them on it now.I have no idea what you are on about, but for the record, I made numerous submissions to Bill Shorten about the inadequacy of ASIC resources to achieve what he was trumpeting as his FOFA reforms, but such analysis was beyond the capacity of Verrender and the wider ALP cheer squad back then.  

Any dim witted lefty worth his/her salt ought to have been able to question the political spin, and see that ASIC shortcomings were already showing the cracks at the time.

How anyone could have believed that outcomes of Shorten's FOFA reforms would include competent, affordable, independent financial planning advice, for those in most need of it, AND adequate oversight by ASIC is completely beyond me.

And yet here, on these pages, the crypt is now calling ME political on the issue?  My goodness me.  No wonder we end up with the legislation and the politicians we deserve.Why would such a person be "more prevalent in country towns", Dave?

I think the opposite.  Those in smaller communities generally know the importance of harmony and not burning bridges with your fellow neighbours.  Your comment screams like someone who has never lived in a truly Australian rural community, is that fair to suggest?Where is the proof that Sri Lanka is "practicing torture"?  

"some experts argue.." is not evidence of a nation "practicing torture", Michael.  Perhaps we could have the ABC fact check this for accuracy?  

This sort of inflammatory, unsubstantiated statement does just as much harm to the debate on this issue as the non-disclosure of information.I wasn't the one paid for this article.  Perhaps you could ask the author to provide said "evidence"?
I am happy for another Royal Commission, Rene.  Just as long as the ABC refuses to report on it, such as with the Union Corruption RC currently underway.  What's that?  You hadn't heard about the RC into union corruption?  Well that will be because you erroneously believe the ABC provides "balanced" coverage of news that is of public interest to ALL Australians, not just Greens/ALP voters.I agree.  The ABC is now totally predictable in its news offerings, and the editorial stance it takes on a narrow range of topics.  Assylum seekers, climate change and left (good) versus right (bad) politics. There is no longer any reporting which is "impartial....following the balance of evidence", rather just a standard line that promotes the left or mocks conservatives and the LNP in particular.

I say narrow range, because the ABC is quite prepared to ignore many issues which in any other Western nation would be considered of high national interest.  Issues such as a police search warrant on the former working files of a sitting PM, in an election year, on matters involving a fraud (the very words of Justice Lauritsen).  The ABC defense was "we did not receive the press release".  Really?  

Or the largest, most comprehensive Royal Commission into union corruption in our history, uncovering evidence of widespread misconduct reaching all the way to the top of a particular political parties hierarchy.  The ABC reporting.  Nil.

The ABC is basically out of control and I would fully support its sell off if and when such a call is made.

Tell me skeleton, what are the implications for handing a 15 year old spoddy kid a welfare cheque instead of staying in school long enough to graduate?  Is that instilling a "work ethic"?  Or is that perhaps setting the kid up to view their society only in terms of what they receive from it?

You talk about cause and effect, yet you ignore all the warning signs of Labor Greens policy.  You are as partisan as the author.Left/Right dogma is enough for Tim Dunlop to be paid exhorbitant amounts for the drivel that he puts up as "opinion" on these pages.  His entire article is based on the principle that left is better than right. Really?  And we ALL have to pay this clown's wages.....

Just once, it would be refreshing to see the ABC take an editorial stance that is not embedded in leftist ideals.

If statements like "Kelly.....is too blinded [by his own ideology]" coming from Tim (I'm an activist) Dunlop is not complete hypocrisy, then what is it?  What is the ABC really representing these days, if not a simplistic mouthpiece for leftist ideology?  Dunlop's opinion aligns with Barrie Cassidy's, which aligns with Jon Faine's, which aligns with Fran Kelly's, which basically all tow a Labor Greens agenda line.  Where is the balance, or the counter view which accords with the 50% of Australians who do NOT share the above's political views?Does "individualism" create more incentive for citizens to be the best they can be, thereby contributing more pp to their society?

Does a welfare state breed a greater reliance by individuals on others to provide for their financial well being?  Is the "incentive" to do more for your society increased or decreased when you see society only in terms of what it owes to you?

Ideology is not right or wrong, it is why we believe what we do.  And for a highly paid contributor on the ABC to suggest that all of societies "entitlement" culture is the result of conservative values is complete nonsense, especially considering we have just had almost 7 years of a wall to wall Labor governments in this country.
Yank, you might be well served to check in on some of the witness statements at the Royal Commission into Union Corruption and Governance.  The collective intelligence of the clowns running this country's largest unions, and their complete lack of any sort of accountability shines a very bright light on why the foundations of the ALP are so based on corruption and thuggery.  

Of course, if you intend to catch any of the news about the Royal Commission, it will entail seeking information outside of that which the national broadcaster is prepared to offer.  You know, stories of high ranking ALP figures being investigated by police for matters involving say corruption, extortion, bullying, even rape etc. are not considered "newsworthy" at the ABC.
The CBA may well yet pay compensation to its victims.  It is too early to tell.

Compare and contrast to the fact that corruption and thuggery within our unions, involving the most senior ALP figures possible has repeatedly been swept under the carpet with litigation and threats against anyone trying to oust the story, and to hell with those who have suffered loss, injury and destruction of their careers.

Now pick which RC the ABC will report on with relish.Whenever I see an ABC or Fairfax article that starts with "twitter trends are indicating....."  I know not to read any further.  

The sad decline in the quality of journalism at Fairfax, appears to be playing out in the quality that comes from the ABC.

There is still more diversity of opinion in The Australian each day than you will find in any of the flagship programs at our national broadcaster.  That is a sad state of affairs.The Right hates the society it has created.    Please.  

I heard a rumour that there was a Royal Commision into union corruption and governance currently in sitting.  Any chance that any one of the plethora of leftist contributors at the ABC might have a vague opinion one way or the other on this matter?  Especially since both the former PM Gillard and the current opposition leader, Shorten have both received plenty of mention.  

Of course not.  If the ABC considered a search warrant being executed on the files of a sitting Prime Minister, in an election year, not to be newsworthy, then anything short of an arrest for corruption will of course escape any mention at our national broadcaster.  After all, the national broadcaster is only interested in issues of national interest, right?"And we need media reporting that errs on the side of compassion and understanding, not fearmongering."

Wouldn't we all, Stella?

I note the media attention to much of the budget is exactly as you say, fear mongering.

If there are limitations to what this nation can afford in assisting those with legitimate and unquestioned disabilities, how can you so quickly dismiss the fact that many many people claiming under the current system, are doing so at the expense of those who really need the financial assistance?  

And with all due respect, if we have had a disability commissioner for 15 odd years, and yet we are still at the bottom of the OECD in terms of equal opportunity, then isn't that a huge hazard sign to say that something needs to change with the status quo?Cornerstone of the Green's movement is to denounce anyone who disagrees with them as having their "ears blocked". 

Who is it, Pom, that seems deaf to the "fact" that climate forecast models are broken?  Who seems to conveniently skim over the fact that there has been no significant warming in almost 18 years, prompting several key lead authors at the IPCC to abandon the so-called "97% consensus view"?

I think if Greens voters actually got off their toosh and showed the way, instead of preaching from on high, their policies might be actually viewed as a rational alternative.  Instead, we get sermons from Christine Milne and Lee Rhiannon.  Says it all right there.

No, it is not.  There is no evidence that climate change is causing an increase in significant weather events.  Even the IPCC admitted that they could find no causal link between climate model forecasts and extreme weather events.

This is just peddling nonsense.Oh, by peer reviewed science, you mean the publications which refuse to publish any form of corrections to their errors? Or,say the IPCC, who have had another of their lead authors come out in opposition to the group think and politics that infests the organisation?

Why is it that Greenies can see a conspiracy in almost every corner of Australian social fabric, yet when presented with an entire scientific community reliant on scare campaigns and government funding, they lose their ability to apply rational thought?

And speaking of "facts", what is the factual basis for the 97% consensus view" that Greenies love to quote?"The end is nigh!"

Quick, give me all your money, and make sure you give some extra to keep Comrade Christine and Comrade Richard in comfort until their dying days.  International flights cost money, you know.  So do water front homes despite our best efforts to undermine the values.... All hail our deal Leaders......I am not "promoting a conspiracy theory", just wondering why the Greens question everything else with their "vested interests" line, but fail to focus on the huge amount of money and power that is being thrown into the alternative energy sector based on climate modelling that is broken?

Saw Richard Di Natale on Q&amp;A last night.  How threatening and aggressive he can become when anyone questions his viewpoint.....it was quite unnerving.  I cannot imagine the horrors of our society if people like him and Milne were ever granted any real power.Rabbithole, if you want consumption of coal, fossil fuels, and the pursuit of zero growth economics, why don't you just stop consuming?  Stop buying a new mobile phone every 3 months, stop demanding cheaper fuel, cheaper cars, more pay for less hours.  Stop eating food that someone else has to work hard to produce.

Greenies' argument is always about others having to change their way of life,yet they themselves seem happy enough to continue reaping the benefits of all that they wail against.Well try to imagine how ever increasing wages will be sustainable when there is no growth in profits to underpin said wages, Hugh?

Its not a complex thing to understand wages from the perspective of those who create the wealth that actually PAYS the wages, but then again, perhaps it is beyond some.....Zero emissions = zero steel manufacturing; zero growth = zero foreign investment leading to zero employment growth.....all leading to zero ability to pay welfare.

Great future vision you have there.By "offsets", do you mean we send a pile of cash overseas on the promise that someone, somewhere decides not to cut down any more trees?   Who in their right mind can truly believe that the entire notion of carbon credit trading on an international scale is not going to be a haven for crooks and cronies?  Even the approved government measurement guidelines of emissions are based on modelling which as everyone can now see is not worth the paper it is printed on.

We can't even get the world to agree on an accounting standard to measure share options, but somehow you want us all  to believe that international measurements of emissions and carbon offsets will be "immaculate"?  Wake up, seriously.

No, I just try and deal in realities.  Something beyond the abilities of the Greens it appears.

If revenue is the problem, how about we encourage ALL Australians to work toward earning more so that ALL Australians contribute more?

Instead, your revenue argument is only ever directed toward the same sections of society who already contribute far in excess of their share.
Chris, it is what the ABC and Farifax media is NOT telling us about Mr Shorten's current troubles, that will ultimately bring him unstuck with the electorate.  The ABC can protect him for only so long, that is why Lateline and Insiders are grooming Tanya Pliberserk so loyally.

Shorten has had too many mentions at the Royal Commission into Union Corruption and Governance that it is now almost impossible for him NOT to be called as a witness.  And I cannot wait to see how the ABC will justify totally ignoring the reporting of that, as compared to their assassination of Arthur Sinodinos.
Sinodinos was called as a witness to ICAC in much the same way that Shorten will to the RC.  Shorten has been accused of participating in a cover up of a fraud, but you wouldn't know that if you only watched the ABC.

There is a glaring consistency problem at the ABC which appears to stem directly from producers and editors right through to individual presenters.  If Abbott sneezes it will be reported ad nauseam, yet Conroy, Shorten, Gillard, Burke are all named, by witnesses under oath, supported in some cases by documentary evidence in what Justice Lauritsen has labelled "the furtherance of a fraud" and suddenly The Drum cannot find a single contributor with an opinion about the most significant RC in Labor's history?  Please.Oh go on, why don't you just say to the wealthy:

"Give me everything you've got and everything you earn, because I deserve it more than the next person"

The problem with socialists is that they are greedy AND ignorant.  Greedy because they want whatever everyone else has, but ignorant because they fail to understand how others got to where they are in life.

I must have been listening to a different Bill Shorten.  Nothing of what I heard could possibly be construed as "offering a realistic alternative".  Shorten is yet another ALP leader with no economic credentials and no ability to distinguish between other peoples money and his.In other words, Ted.  You see the need for budget cuts, just as long as it is someone else who pays the bill.

This is socialism 101.  The ABC is a living, breathing monument to what happens when unlimited resources are handed over without adequate oversight or accountability.  We end up with a behemoth that refuses to acknowledge its own failures, and journalists like Jonathan Green suggesting that he "represents the centre of the political spectrum" is further proof of how far left the ABC has drifted.The difference in the ABC's approach to political commentary now is best summed up by their tag lines.  For 6 years, ABC criticism of Rudd/Gillard was always prefaced by "The opposition says..." or "Tony Abbott opposes...".  Now, Bill Shorten doesn't even have to turn up for duty, the ABC is there doing his bidding for him.  Direct political comment and criticism is now levelled by the ABC without any reference to Shorten or  the ALP/Greens, and this is done so as to avoid the suggestion of "negativity" that dogged the coalition in opposition.Another Jonathan Green piece displaying all the balance and impartiality that we have come to expect from the ABC.....

Anyone at Aunty notice that Gillard and Murphy have been called to give evidence at the Royal Commission into Union Corruption?  No?  I guess the ABC is still "waiting for the press release".Yes, "where to from here", Yank.  

I think we can keep borrowing to pay our welfare costs for about another 5 years, by which time the opportunity to address the debt growth will have passed.  Voters will not be required to "give approval" for budget cuts, the cuts will be dictated to us by external forces well beyond our domestic budgetary framework.

Green speaks of "irony".  How ironic will it be for Shorten to inherit the budgetary mess that Rudd/Gillard set in motion, only to see the coalition emerge as the one party that was prepared to stand up and address it?

We get the government we deserve, don't we?But thanks to the ABC, the current opposition doesn't even need to get  its hands dirty, RGG.

Direct political criticism was almost non existent under Rudd/Gillard for 6 years, go and check the news and opinion headlines and articles in the archive section if you don't believe me.  Political commentary was always reported by the ABC through the prism of "Abbott/Coalition negativity".

Now, direct criticism is levelled by the ABC, daily, with little or no reference to the ALP/Greens at all. The have completely dispensed with the requirement to "frame" political comment into an appropriate context, and in doing so are in breach of the charter of impartiality.  Drum crawlers will be blind to this change, because the current criticism suits their political leanings.Tiresias
They are not "employees" of the ABC dictating editorial content.
And any such criticism by these commentators is clearly done so from the LNP side of the political spectrum.

The issue is that the ABC is currently conducting direct political commentary, via its editors, presenters and compares, which is counter to the charter of impartiality.  It is also no secret that most editors, producers and presenters at the ABC are either former ALP advisers or are in relationships with ALP politicians.  The predominance of left wing journalists is overwhelming, and we are told that their political persuasion makes no difference to their ability to be impartial.  Yet the ABC themselves insist that any commentary by a conservative journalist must be prefaced with "right-wing commentator Janet Albrechston etc etc."   Take Virginia Trioli's ridiculous insistence on asking only conservative guests if they belonged to a political party.  If it matters not how ABC employees vote, why do conservative guests need to be identified by their political persuasion?  If the ABC runs criticism of the government, it should be framed as to on whose behalf that criticism is being raised.  If this implies that the ALP opposition are "negative", then so be it.But for socialists like Green, totalitarianism is not to be feared.  Just as long as it is YOUR mob at the top of the tree.ij:  It now costs us more per year to fund our debt than we spend on aged care.  Next year, the interest bill will have surpassed most other single forms of welfare.

You might think that is not a problem, but most rational souls ought to be concerned by the growth rate of the annual interest cost, even setting aside the level of debt comparative to other countries (which, by the way, is entirely irrelevant).

On the current trajectory, the true penalty for our complacency now, will be those who most need help in our society.  But lefties seem incapable of seeing past this week for some reason."those least able to contribute"  or those least 'wanting' to contribute.  Very different things, Ted.Ok, Tom1, let's assume you are right and there is no budget emergency.

How would you alter the current settings of government expenditure exceeding revenues, in view of the fact the growth in excess spending is increasing.

Or are you happy to vote for Shorten regardless of the fact that he has no clue how to address the spending either?

Gee, Pete, I'm glad you asked.
Remember the ABC defending Gillard and Rudd against criticism aimed by The Australian during the past 6 years?  Remember the ABC stating that the ALP were not a dysfunctional government, they just couldn't sell their message?  Now read the books by all and sundry former ALP ministers who are now openly confirming that The Australian got it right all along, but will the ABC admit that its lack of balanced commentary for 6 years was evidence of its partisans ALP apologist agenda?  Not likely.

I will keep reading The Australian, because at least they run a variety of political views, unlike the ABC, the one media outlet in the country that is supposedly bound by a charter of impartiality.

Clotho:
Show me the public charter that requires News Ltd to be impartial?  And when you find it, perhaps you can tell us how much of public funding is paid to News Ltd in exchange for that charter?
I have absolutely no time for any politician who allows themselves to be corrupted, but lets face it Quentin, where were you in the 15 years that such corruption was allowed to flourish in NSW under the Labor government?  Nary a mention from the ABC in 15 years of what was going on.  Certainly no coverage or investigative journalism from the ABC in time to taint the careers of Carr, Iemma, et al, yet every man and his dog knew what was going on.  Where were you?

Now, like the fearless investigator, you are all over this issue like a cheap suit.  What has changed?  It is LNP politicians implicated in the corruption.  

You are showing all the balance and impartiality that we have come to expect from the ABC these days.I think:  You won't have to go and "fight them".  The fight will be brought home to you.  That is the point after all.  This is no longer about a few loose cannons in a far away place, these are UK, Australian, French nationals doing these things, and eventually coming home again.  To do what?  Sit around feeling cheery about left wing dross on The Drum?

Wake up people, you only have to hear the translated preachings from some of our fellow Australian's masquerading as wise religious leaders to know that the hatred that enables someone to hack another human beings' head off in the name of Allah is right here on your doorstep.All good stuff, DannyS.  As long as your comfortable with the fact that there are those who dislike your point of view and want to kill you because of that fact.

Legal bribes?  Or in the case of the unions, it appears more like blatant money laundering to me, Smarts.  

Head on over to the RC into Union corruption today, and see for yourself the extent that some of the union good ol' boys have gone to in efforts to hide their financial transactions.  All good stuff, but don't expect the ABC to report any of it, as it doesn't fit their "LNP = bad: ALP = good" editorial stance.Well if you endeavoured to read more widely than the socialist Fairfax/ABC drivel, you might see an alternative viewpoint being put forward.So a "media adviser to the LNP" can only ever be biased to the right?

What does that say about Barrie Cassidy Red Kerry and their never ending list of left wing associated employees at the national broadcaster, then?did he use the term "rat f(@#E&amp;$" by any chance?  Or fall flat on his face?  Or use words like "problematic specificity" in the same sentence as "like"?

Cringe worthy moments are as much in the eye of the beholder as true beauty, my friend.  Your and the ABC's "truth" is consistently being shown to be at odds with a large number of Australians, and the problem with that is that the ABC at least, has a contract with taxpayers to remain impartial.  It is failing.

When was the last time you read a news or analysis piece on the ABC which attributed the "Abbott negativity" to either the Greens or the opposition?  The ABC now does Bill Shorten's bidding for him, so as to not allow him to be seen as obstructionist.  Clearly this is well short of expectations laid out in the ABC Charter.The ABC is more and more appearing to be like some sort of parallel universe!

For God's sake, just abide by your charter to provide some form of balance.And the fact that you only see ONE side of this argument, is evidence that you only take your news from one source and that source only provides your one sided view of the world.

The ABC.  So very sad to see what it is has become.I would be extremely sad if the ABC is lost to privatisation, but I see no alternative ending for it if the current trajectory of left wing dominance is allowed to continue.

It is now the case that unless you are either married to an ABC employee or to an ALP politician, you have no chance of ever fronting one of the major news or analysis programs at the national broadcaster.So what you would prefer, rabbie, is a popularist leader like Obama.  Making hollow promises that he will never be held to account on?  Or China, promising to do nothing but increase emissions until 2030.  Wow, you are easily pleased.

If Abbott had made the same speech as Obama, the ABC would be all  over him to announce how his promises would funded, what the legislation would look like, how many university professors or feminists might be offended by it and whether or not the new laws would apply to wealthy Iraqi's immigrating via boat.

Clearly the ABC has it in for Abbott, not because of what he tries to achieve, but despite it.Yes, Where's Tony, it most certainly is YOUR ABC.  A national broadcaster which promotes one side of political debate on almost every single issue of importance.Malcolm, our labour laws have effectively killed off the prospect of our every being able to efficiently manufacture anything here anymore.

When you have factory line workers drawing plus $100k salaries on a 40 hour week, whatever they produce will be too expensive for overseas consumption and our local market is never going to be large enough to sustain the new manufacturing utopia that you envision?

If you doubt me, why don't you go and borrow the money to start up your own manufacturing plant and try some practical implementation for a change?  You might just be surprised by the difficulties that your Greens left mates have created for you.Direct knowledge of Holden workers annual salary packages, Trent.  By a company beholden to taxpayer subsidies for its very existence over the past 20 years.

What is your point?

Ruby, what IS it that China is actually "doing"

If I say that I am going to donate $1 million dollars to charity in 2030, would I receive platitudes from you for this "action" or would it be reasonable for someone to be sceptical of whether or not the promise will be fulfilled?

Seeming is NOT doing, you see.That is why Whitlam was so popular with the popularist left.  He had big visions and big announcements and then when it came to the practicalities of actually paying for it all.......Helvi, how many US citizens died on MH17?A gentle arm at the back of the Monarch who nobody is supposed to touch, Olive.  

Keating meeting the Queen was a great honour.....for the Queen, in Keating's mind.But Obama did?  And the ABC is roundly praising him for it.

By definition, an "industry" is one which produces or endeavours to produce positive outcomes through the engagement and allocation of scarce resources.

The "renewable" energy industry survives only on public funding handouts and hollow promises to fix a problem that nobody can prove exists.  

Renewables Industry is an oxymoron, Grumpy, and you know it deep down.Not in the least, Skeleton.

I actually cringed more when listening and watching Obama making all the hollow rhetoric that made Gillard so putrid to voters.  The second thing that made me ill was the way the ABC so proudly promoted China's promise to keep increasing omissions until 2030.

If Abbot had made either of these statements, the only sure thing is that you and the ABC would have been all over him to provide details and costings and impact studies etc. etc.

He is not under active police investigation for involvement in fraud, so he is way ahead of his predecessor, Lefty.

Is that the best you can do?

I hope the ALP is not paying you too much to sit and make inane comments to otherwise legitimate facts.

Gillard, as PM, went to an election whilst under active police investigation and the ABC did not mention this fact once.

Does anyone in their right mind think that Abbott would have been afforded the same courtesy by our national broadcaster?No, she was NOT.

Counsel assisting made a submission to the Commissioner, that is not admonishment, and there is still the actual findings of the Commissioner, the Vic police fraud squad and any number of other charges which may be laid when the dung hits the proverbial fan.  I'd say, wait.You didn't say that when Rudd said that he woudl incinerate the board of OPEC with an oxy acetylene torch over fuel pricing, Gazza?  Was that not a threat of violence also?  Especially when coupled with Rudd's consistent verbal and physical abuse of female flight attendants and personal staff.  How did you miss that?

Funny how Barrie Cassidy missed all those "pointers" about our illustrious former leader, too.  No such mistake is made for Abbott, of course, because as we all now know categorically, the ABC hates Tony Abbott and will do all it can to undermine him and his government.Not from Cassidy or the ABC, Olive.  That is my point.

The ABC is not there just to serve your political viewpoint, Olive.  Can you not accept that?"The ABC does not indulge in slinging off.."

OMG.  Did you read your own post?  Ask Chris Kenny whether the ABC is in the business of character assassination of its critics?  Ask any conservative voter in Australia whether they look into the ABC organisation and see any form of reflection of their own political beliefs.

The ABC most certainly IS in the business of slinging off, but only against conservatives oddly enough.Dazza, I took the time and effort to review the ABC archives, and Cassidy most certainly did NOT criticise Rudd for his OPEC comments.

Why don't you try some research yourself instead of blindly swallowing ABC propaganda?

The point I make is one of consistency and abiding by a charter of impartiality.  Both concepts escape Barrie Cassidy on a daily basis, despite the contract he has made with ALL Australians, not just left wing socialists.Your truth is clearly not aligned with the broadly accepted reality of this government's success on the international stage, Gazza.

Perhaps you would like to return to the days of Kevin Rudd calling the Chinese Rat-f(@#ers, or perhaps you prefer the Whitlam signover of the East Timorese to persecution at the hands of the Indonesians?  Is that the sort of international diplomacy you think is "good"?

I prefer the reality of what Abbott, Bishop and Robb have done in achieving favourable relations with our trading partners, outcomes which far exceed the achievements of the ALP over 6 years.You should be careful using terms like "laughing stock" in a post with your name on it, Helvi.

At least you give me a chuckle every time I read your offerings.  Thanks for that.Why?   Because he has taken a firm stance with Putin over the death of 38 Australians?  In context of three very successful international trade deals, I think these are all indications of a strong leader. 

And how do you know what the rest of the world thinks?  Are you simply taking Barrie Cassidy's word for it?

Why do you prefer a Russian dictator over a democratically elected leader in your own country?  It is very odd.But the same courtesy was not extended to critics of Gillard, who were labelled as "sexist" for pointing out her obvious failures.

Curious.Excellent post.

If anyone wants to try and dispute Giles points, try checking out the ABC archives from Rudd first 18 months and Gillards first 18 months.  Pay particular attention to the topics of one Barrie Cassidy during the Rudd Gillard years, compare and contrast with his now brave attempt to suddenly hold the government of the day to account.Come on, Barrie.  For God's sake show some consistency.

Kevin Rudd proudly boasted that he would incinerate the board of OPEC with an oxy acetylene torch over fuel pricing, and you and the rest of the socialist ABC journos parroted about how "strong" he was on important issues.  Rudd's own physical and verbal abuse of staff and female flight attendants at the time was also a good indication of how "strong" he was, but none of that apparently grabbed your attention???

It is high time you moved over and made room for someone who is capable of providing at least the pretence of impartiality, as the ABC charter for balanced reporting is supposed to be a contract in exchange for your very generous pay packet.All I want BS, is balanced and impartial treatment of both sides of politics by the ABC.  That is what they are charted to provide.

When Cassidy hailed at length the every statement and unsubstantiated claim of Rudd and Gillard over 6 years, whilst we were all calling for some sort of scrutiny, the left rallied behind proposed new laws to curtail News corps supposedly negative press coverage of the then government.

The ABC only ever criticised the ALP through comments made by Tony Abbott, thereby painting him as obstructionist and negative.

Now, the ABC openly and directly makes political comment, completely dispensing with the requirement to frame such comment within a prism of "reporting" the opposition or Greens position.  Bill Shorten will never be allowed to be seen as negative by the ABC, while it does the "opposing" on his behalf.
Barrie, what have the US and China actually done on Climate change?

Obama knows full well that his promise will never be passed by Congress, and the Chinese are basically sitting on their hands until 2030 in any event.

Please, you are the one who knows everything.  Tell us what has been achieved that might put pressure on Abbott (who is incidentally making direct action measures now, not 2030).

Enlighten us, oh wise-one.How much has the earth's temperature increased in the past 100 years.

Was the actual increase in line with climate models or significantly less than the models have predicted?

How much of the actual increase (not models or predictions) is proven beyond any doubt to have been man made?

How much would our climate have been influenced by the carbon tax?

Is the ABC's Philip Adams correct when he states that sea levels will rise by 100 metres?

Is Dr Karl correct when he states that the earth's temperature has risen .3 of a degree in the past 10 years, or is the UK Met figure of .03 closer to the truth?  Does Dr Karl's figure deserve to be tested by ABC fact checker?  Is it likely to be tested by ABC fact checker?

Look forward to your answers.......crickets......crickets....
No, the first question is 

"Is climate change able to be influenced by man?"

All other debate dissolves into irrelevance until you can answer this question.

So even the IPCC admits "there is no clear correlation between climate change and extreme weather events" AND that it cannot explain the fact that actual recorded temperature increases are so inconsistent with the modelled predictions, yet the obvious conclusion is ignored.  We have no control over the climate, for better or for worse. 

Well a quick reconciliation of actual temperature changes versus modelled predictions would be good way of telling whether the current alarmism is based on "reliable methods", don't you think mt_syd?

Should we also drill down on the homogenization of recorded data by BOM?  Or maybe we can simply ask the BOM to explain why the homogenization was required in the first place?

And whilst we are on the topic of tampering with data to fit the hypothesis, what purpose was being sought from the climate gate emails, and what damage to the credibility of peer review processes was caused?

ABC fanatics keep declaring that the science is settled, but science on any topic, on anything so variable and random as our planet's weather and climate should NEVER be settled on any conclusion.  Yet the only ones failing to answer questions about their science are the publicly funded climate alarmists, and that, by any definition, is vested interest at play.How do you explain the increasing number of scientists walking away from the so-called "consensus" view of man made climate change?

Why are the views of those former authors of IPCC reports any less worthy than those who remain within the consensus.

Science by very nature should welcome the denialist view, because that is exactly what science is built on.  Testing a hypothesis, matching the predictions against actual data, and soberly arguing the findings in the face of opposing views.

Instead, sections of the scientific community, propped up financially by public funds, denounces any questions as to why "actual" findings are so consistently at odds with predictions.

Blindly ignoring calls to explain data manipulation and variances in actual findings is NOT science, it is vested interest.Where is your "peer reviewed" paper which proves the % you quote?

The entire notion of "science by consensus" is purile in the extreme.Gee, RayS, you clearly tow the ABC propaganda line.  That is exactly the editorial position that Ultimo wanted you to conclude.  The ABC sprouts a message of anti-Abbott rhetoric, and the avid socialist serfs repeat it ad nauseam.  

I guess you also liked the propaganda coming out of Russia on this topic as well, eh?

I, on the other hand, am left thinking that the families of those 38 dead Australians are being short changed by the ABC's obsession to denounce Abbott at the expense of real issues nowadays.

The ABC has clearly dispensed with even the pretence of operating within its charter, and many many Australians are now seeing the ABC for what it is.  I do not recall 7.30 report EVER mocking Julia Gillard for anything she said.  And she said some pretty deceitful and stupid things in her 3 1/2 years as PM.Yes, Craig, but how else can the likes of Sales and Crabb and the editorial/production teams at the ABC actively promote their ideals?  That pesky "impartiality" charter supposedly restricts their normal programming to at least appear balanced, but they all have so much activism to get off their chests over at Ultimo.

What better way to completely dispense with the notion of "taxpayer funded gravy train" than to bypass all those conservatives by creating "podcasts" to spruik to the faithful.People do "aspire to better this country", each and every day.  They are called small  business owners, and your lot keep the heel of socialist repression on their heads everytime they try to come up for air.

Whitlam couldn't even organise to advise his own Senators not to vote in support of the supply bills following his sacking.  He was a complete failure as a PM in all practical sense, and no amount of ABC fact  checking or lies about him giving women the vote, will change this undeniable fact.The bit I love most about the day of Whitlam's sacking, is the fact that he went home to sulk....erm "to have a steak", but forgot to brief his Senators, who dutifully voted to pass supply bills, in complete ignorance of the outcome.

But when a man of Gough's stature was more concerned with appearances than with practical outcomes, what could the Australian people expect?aGuy, you haven't been paying attention.

The CIA "got" to the Australian voting public (every last one of them according to the ABC fact checker) and convinced them, quite erroneously of course, to vote against Whitlam.  Not once, but twice!

So even my 96 year old Great Great Aunt, living out in the @rse end of nowhere, with no telephone and limited Tv access, was treated to a visit by the US CIA, who convinced her to vote against the messiah, Gough Whitlam.  

Can you bear it?No, according to ABC fact checker, Whitlam healed the sick, walked on water, and was the victim of a CIA hatchet job.

Fascinating, isn't it?No, Mungo, what Abbott really means is 

Let's have a mature debate.

If you want to hear this to be code for whatever it is that bothers you about the fact that the ALP is not in power at the moment, of for the fact that Gillard's reputation is irreversibly shredded due to her attempts to cover up her AWU past, or that Whitlam's legacy in truth, is so far away from the myth that you believe to be true, so be it.

The rest of us can gladly get on the with the business of ensuring our future tax base can afford to keep public servants like you in the comfort to which you have become accustomed.Helvi,
The Abbott government could cure cancer and you'd still deny them any credit.  Your views are simply entrenched in the idea that compassion is the sole domain of left wingers, and all conservative thought is selfishness.

Supposedly impartial journalists like Barrie appeal to your vanity because he allows his own political views to dictate the editorial stance of his every output.  Fair enough, but I wish you and he would consider for once that no real change in the good of the nation has ever, nor will it ever, come with only the support of one side of politics.You'd be a fanboy of the ABC as well, then I am guessing, Harvey.

Good for you. 

Here is some news that you have missed by failing to consider alternative sources:

The LNP won the last election.  Australian voters overwhelmingly rejected Rudd and Gillard and voted for Abbott.

Now I realise that the ABC is still coming to grips with this state of affairs, but I am happy for Abbott and his team to get on with it.Hey Alpo, I am thinking of purchasing a new boat worth around $700k to $800k, should I wait until your lot come to power and abolishes the GST?  I sure could do without paying $73,000 in GST to our collective revenue.....Keep up the solid support for Shorten and the ALP, Barrie.

With any hope, they will be back in power soon and you can start to relax a bit, safe in the knowledge that all your hard yards at the ABC have paid off.

Oh, and then you can sing the praises of every ALP announcement, with nary a question, just as you did for Rudd and Gillard.The curious thing, Clete, is that the ABC always reported Abbott's negativity by referring to "Abbott opposes" or "The LNP is blocking..."

Now, across the entire ABC platform, they have completely dispensed with even referring to Shorten or the Opposition, instead our national broadcaster makes direct political comment as if it is fact, without even bothering to attribute said commentary to the ALP or the Greens. This is clearly designed so as to avoid Shorten ever being labelled as "obstructionist" in the manner that the ABC succeeded in doing to Abbott.He hasn't fallen flat on his face whilst visiting overseas, like Gillard did in India.  By that measure alone he is more "statesmanlike".

Incidentally, if you put footage of Gillard's tripping over on repeat play whilst listening to the Benny Hill theme it is hilarious.  High water mark of her political career for mine.You assume that the definition of "good government" requires constant interfering in our daily lives, BJ.  It most certainly does not.

Having trouble standing on your own two feet without a Labour government in power?  So is the ABC.When the RC into union corruption is done, Shorten will be carcass in the desert with Plibersek circling above.

Wait and see.I have always respected Nova Peris and her achievements in sport for this country, and her compassion for public service, even though I don't agree with her politics.

However, as a white Australian I now realise what Nova thinks of me and all other white Australians, and it makes a mockery of her calls for less racism in this country.

Her language and the ABC ignorance of the racist undertones of her conduct saddens me a great deal.  More so when compared with the ABC incessant coverage of Barry Spurr's emails.I blame Jonathan Green for the fact that so many young people go through school believing that the world owes them a living, only to find out the reality is something altogether different.

I'd rather we teach our kids that society is what happens when everyone puts in more than they expect in return, and you know what?  Many of these so called unemployed may actually find there are real things they can get involved in which will make them more employable, or give them real skills which will help them down the track.

Or, they can sit and play game of thrones until that dream job is finally made ready for them.But when other countries' debt is worse than ours, Yank, you use that as support for Labor's profligate spending?

Pick a principle, mate.  Any principle.  But try and stick with it, eh?It is worse than that, Steve.

Any loss of intergenerational farming knowledge can not be relearnt or taught at TAFE.  This is the thing that city dwelling sandlistas fail to grasp.  They think farming the land or husbanding livestock is as easy as ordering a double defaf half caff latte with a twist of lemon.Wayne Swan would have borrowed and borrowed and borrowed all on the promise of someone else paying it back.  Oh, but he would still have accepted all the praise for making the "hard decisions".

Mr Verrender, I feel sure, is a mad keen Swanenomics supporter.  Ie. if you use big words like Fiscal Stimulus and Forward Estimates enough times, it all sounds as though you know what you are talking about.  Even when all you understand are the lyrics to a mediocre 1980's New Jersey song writers' dross.Gough had less than three years at the helm.  And the fact that he did SO much damage in three years is the true testament to his ability to completely ignore the reality of "practical" implementation.  Just like Mr Verrender, and the wider ABC it seems.

To say that Whitlam avoided a recession, therefore he was a good economic manager is laughable.Mike, if Brits had to travel 21,000 kms every time they wanted to visit Europe or have two days in the sun at tennrife at a cost of 3 times the monthly average wage, then I suspect there would be less international holiday makers in the UK as well.

Geography as much as intent dictates where Aussies travel, and I expect the % of us who can tick Europe off the list is greater than the number of Brits who have seen Australia and NZ.

Yes, we are somewhat isolated from the rest of the world, but if we were as bad and as ignorant as you say, you'd be living back in the UK, right?So Whitlam robbed all Australians by allowing inflation to sky rocket, and you think he was "compassionate"?

Says as much as anyone needs to know about your ability to understand the economic realities of government interventionism.What % did public sector wages increase under Whitlam?  What part of that increase did NOT influence domestic inflation?  Now.  Any guesses as to whether or not Whitlam's government impacted inflation in Australia?

Oh, quite the contrary, Crow.
My education included years of listening to left wing gits trying to upsell Whitlam's achievements, whilst simultaneously damning the "evils" of conservative political beliefs.

Seems you had the same education, except you fell for it, and I didn't.Vision is easy, when some else is left to foot the bill, Helvi.
This is the basic premise of Socialist ideology.

Compared to some of the achievements of governments in other countries at the time of so much social change, Whitlam was a lightweight.  Oh but he DID give women in Australia the vote, as faithfully reported (but not corrected) by ABC news....
Ian, I look forward to your equally blatant and wholehearted support for the records of Messers Frazer and Howard when it is ultimately "their time".  But a part of me suspects your reaction then, will be much the same as your reaction was to the passing of Mrs Thatcher.  Based purely on hatred and ideology.You just keep repeating the ABC mantra that "Whitlam gave Australian women the vote", Helvi.

Saying it enough times will ultimately make it true.But Jonathan Green said the "terror threat" was all in our minds....??

Fact checker anyone?I agree, Steve.

Love him or loath him, Gough was a mighty "large" individual.  None of what he achieved in life could have been done in the name of the Greens, and to suggest they carry on his legacy is pure infantile ignorance.

Sarah Hanson-Young will be convincing herself that she has all of what Gough had, and more, as she catches up on past episodes of Sea Patrol...

There is one glaring similarity between Whitlam and the Greens, and that is the tendency to be completely blind to the practicalities and consequences of forcing ones "ideals" onto others.So What, Greg?

Can you point to the unequivocal proof that the greenhouse gas emissions are causing any adverse effects on our climate?"no journalism exists freely without the choices of its creator."

Isn't this an admission that the ABC by virtue of its policy of employing NO conservatives, is evidence of its left wing bias?Yes.  I find there is more diversity of opinion, from a more diverse range of contributors than I see emanating from the ABC.  That the latter is publicly funded to offer impartial and balanced editorial content is the more worrying aspect.

Does anyone really think that the ABC, a conservative journalist free zone, can possibly offer balanced and impartial editorial content, when even the author of this piece admits that "no journalism exists freely without the choices (as to fact, opinion etc) of its creator""If you watch the Drum" you see a program that is edited, produced and presented by ABC employees whose editorial opinions, when offered elsewhere on the ABC, always and ONLY align with the Green/ALP left.  And therein lies the whole problem

That is the whole point of the criticism of the ABC that Mark Scott refuses to engage with, and it follows from this authors admission that political leanings will always influence journalists output."contributors" have less editorial control than "producers, editors and presenters".

Pretty simple concept which seems to escape anyone who finds that the ABC encapsulates their every political view.  Ie. Leftwing socialists.Good for you, Dame.

I feel the same way about the ABC, but unfortunately cannot make a purchase decision willingly as my tax dollars are compulsory used to prop up their bias.If ALP aligned journalists at the ABC are capable of reporting without bias, why the outrage at the ABC when Janet Albrechsten was appointed to the ABC board?

It is because the siege mentality that prevails at Ultimo is colouring the national broadcasters' ability to remain impartial, and is proof that the ABC knows they have a bias perception problem, but refuse to engage it publicly for fear of funding cuts.OUB, now by extension, ask yourself how many of the media outlets are mandated by charter to be impartial?  And how many are publicly funded in exchange for this commitment?"destabilise society", Alpo.  Is the act of immigrating to a country, enjoying all the hospitality of its welfare, education and safety and the generosity of its people, whilst denouncing every Australian as a bigoted infidel, a "contributing factor in the destabilisation of that society", do you think Alpo?

What is wrong with being Australian?  What is wrong with the fact that many Australians are proud of the achievements we have made in the past.  The society that provides all the enticements for people wanting to resettle here, did not just miraculously materialise, it has been built by the toil and sacrifice of those who cam before us.  Why can the ABC not show these achievements in a good light ever?

I am so heartily sick to death of the ABC and left wingers continually denouncing this country and the mainstream Australians who for the most part, are generous, tolerant and hard working and who should rightly be proud of their country and its culture.

The ABC is a disgrace.SO, for all those who are so "ashamed of Australia", why is it that the ABC only gives platform to their views?  What of the majority who are proudly Australian?  Do they not rank a mention at the ABC anymore?Instead of screaming from the sidelines, Helvi, why don't you invest your money to start the manufacturing business here?

Why is always someone else's hard work, financial resources and risk tolerance that has to prop your idea of Australian manufacturing utopia?

What of those in our society who denounce our relaxed attire as "inappropriate" whilst hiding behind medieval masks, refusing to engage in any social way with anyone not of their religion?  Those who refuse to learn English whilst preaching for a caliphate or having their children holding placards stating "behead all those who insult the Prophet"?

Are these also values that you defend as "Australian" or can we discuss these as perhaps social attitudes which are designed to create divisions?You do not speak for me, Rosie.  And I am pretty sure you don't speak for the majority who voted in a manner which elected the current Government.

Jonathan, the ABC says "Love it, or leave" to conservatives every day of the week.  How is the blinkered group think at our national broadcaster and the defensive siege mentality of  Mark Scott any different to your ramblings in this article?

One is still left to ponder the question, if people want to come to Australia for a better life for themselves and their children, yet denounce everything about our culture.  What IS it that is drawing them here?  Welfare entitlements, perhaps?  The infrastructure of a wealthy, generous and tolerant society which has only been built by the toil and sacrifice of the past few generations?

Immigrants of all ilks should be encouraged to recognise who and what is to thank for the society and economy we currently enjoy.  And the ABC would do well to promote the positives attributes of mainstream Australians just once in a while.if the ABC continues to bemoan how awful Australians are, can we ask the ABC to leave as well?An appreciation for how we got to where we are is the best way to appreciate the positives of Australian society.  Appreciating that it was the sacrifice and commitment and hard work of generations before you that give you the opportunities you now take for granted.

Just as the ABC attempts to airbrush the Menzies era from the history books, Howard quite rightly attempts to remind them of the very great social progress that was made during that time.

You seem to denounce the 1950's simply because it is not the 2010's.  Trashing of institutions and tearing down social frameworks is what progressives generally believe to be "progress", when in actual fact it is just human kind making the same mistakes over and over again.The parallel universe that is the ABC, a place which promotes Jonathan Green's views as "centrist mainstream" and anyone right of him, is an extremist.

Curious, isn't it?Funny, but I spent 6 years feeling the same way under Labor.  The hatred, backstabbing and corruption within that government had the effect of creating a lot of hostility amongst many conservative Australians, most of whom would never before have been so vocal about such issues.

Australians haven't become all that you say, Sarah.

The ABC is constantly telling you to find offense, and you have obliged. 

Good on you.  Did you buy a "F(&amp;$ Abbott" T-shirt?Teachers are very important, but they do have how many weeks annual leave  a year, Mitor?

Nurses, granted, are not nearly paid enough for the responsibilities and skills they need, nor the responsibilities they take on, but whilst we have so many lining up for welfare without doing ANYTHING, these other professionals will continue to be left behind on pay scales.EM:  Bias is as much a matter of "appearance" as it is a provable or disprovable fact.  Much like "conflicts of interest", which pretty much explains the reason that most conservative leaning Australians neither see or hear any voice from within the ABC, aside from the odd contribution by non ABC employees.

The proof is in the ABC reaction to the appointment of a non ALP aligned board director in Janet Albrechsten.  The ABC reaction was of "outrage" at the "controversial" appointment.  When conservatives ask how the ABC editorial stance, dominated by left wing policy promotion and delivered only by ALP aligned or former ALP advisers is any different, Mr Scott states that the "political persuasion of ABC journalists is irrelevant to their ability to remain impartial"

Well, why are conservatives not offered the same professional courtesy?And ABC employees profiting from the slander of Murdoch.....

Media Watch, anyone?  Hardly independent when its host (the newest in a long line of ardent left wingers) stands to make personal gain from the very editorial stance that he takes on a taxpayer funded program.I agree.

The ABC has a problem.  Impartiality is as much about the "appearance" of balance as it is in fact.  

Scott suggests that the fact that there is not one conservative employee at the ABC in any editorial, production or presenter roles at any of the news and current affairs "is irrelevant", yet the same man goes into outrage mode when a conservative journalist is appointed to the ABC board.   

As I said, the ABC has a problem with the appearance of impartiality, and no amount of funding is going to change that under the prevailing siege mentality of the left wing dominated power base at Ultimo.Rather than the ABC sitting there saying "prove that we are biased", how about the ABC being asked to prove to the 50% of the Australian population whose political views are only ever discussed as "contrarian" or "extreme", that they too have a voice at the ABC?

Impartiality must be so in appearance, Andrew.If anyone had the choice to pay for the ABC, it would fold.

Fairfax is the financial basket case that proves this.  Left wing caf? dwellers refuse to even pay for that socialist rag, why would they dig deep to pay for the ABC?Mr Scott, If the ABC believes that the majority of Australians are "bigoted, racist, sexist, conservatives", why does the national broadcaster not abide by its charter to run programming that actually "reflects" Australian culture, rather than running a constantly contrarian editorial stance?

Your editorial stance, delivered only by ALP aligned or former ALP adivsers, constantly takes a selective approach to:
 - climate change
 - asylum seeker issues
 - union corruption (pretty much ignored entirely on The Drum in the past 8 months)
 - industrial relations policy
 
You state that the political persuasion of your journalists has no bearing on their ability to remain impartial, yet you are "outraged by the controversial appointment" of a conservative journalist to the ABC board?  Why is Janet Albrechsten not offered the same professional courtesy you demand for your own nest of left wing employees masquerading as "balanced" journalists/editors/presenters?

Impartiality at the ABC must exist in appearance as much as in fact.  And with the current state of left wing dominated employees at all editorial levels, the ABC is incapable of appearing to abide by its charter to the wider Australian public.The financial demise of Fairfax is where the ABC would end up if not for the mandated contribution of taxpayer funds by conservative Australians.

The fact that the ABC can not only ignore, but completely denounce the political views of almost half the taxpaying population, whilst happily feeding off their tax dollars, is truly a stark contrast to the charter to which the ABC is supposed to abide.And not a mention of the ABC's failure to "appear" impartial, Mr Scott?

You really are taking conservative Australians and the financial contributions they make to your welfare for granted.Looks like the ABC and Fairfax have taken the editorial decision to back Plibersek for the top ALP job.

Even old warriors on the conservative side like Michael Kroger can see it coming.

God, the left and their taxpayer funded propaganda unit are so boringly predictable.Struck Dumb:  Can you show me the ABC endorsed T-Shirt design that states "F^(# Gillard"?

When you can, I will believe you that Gillard copped more abuse than Abbott does from the left.No.  Gillard is a "hater", and for that she receives mutual feelings of the majority.Agreed.

Gillard also used PM letterhead to make intimidatory threats and false representations against journalists at Fairfax and News Corps media relating to the AWU Work Place Reforms Association.  

The Royal Commission has already exposed that much, and more is to come.

Hardly the conduct of a fit and proper "person", whatever their gender.  The sexism argument was inflated to divert media attention, and in doing so, set back the cause for all female politicians by decades.
Well that depends on whether you want old people to be able to pay for their own retirement needs, to entice professionally skilled women back to the workforce in higher positions of influence after having children, and if you want housing availability to be within reach of all those renters who cannot afford to buy their own homes.

If you don't want any of those things, then your post makes sense, MontyB.See what happens to rents if the government decides to change the tax deductibility of interest against real estate.  And are you also proposing that costs of borrowing against other income generated assets also be made not deductible?  What impact will that have on investment in Australia, do you think?

Self funded retirees spend money in their retirement, much of the current superannuation savings within self managed super funds is actually made up of 'non-concessional' contributions, so nobody actually claimed any deductions for getting the money into the fund anyway.  The tax figures reported by both the Fairfax press and the ABC on the true cost to revenue of superannuation contributions has been totally debunked time and time again, yet there are still clowns ready to repeat the tired rhetoric.  Suggest you read some of the previous writings of Judith Sloan on this issue, it is quite illuminating.
Which makes Credlin fair game for all the sexist abuse the left can muster......wow.

It is not Credlin's fault if the ALP have so much "dirt", corruption and criminality to keep hidden from the public.  The Royal Commission into Unions is just the tip of the iceberg, Bernie.Yawn.

All but two of the LNP politicians have shown the good grace to stand aside whilst investigations are under way.  Compare and contrast that with the died in the hole support that Craig Thomson or Williamson or Obeid or Tripodi et al enjoyed, whilst lying through their teeth to the Australian people.  

The ABC line of trying to conflate NSW electoral funding law breaches with the extent of criminality being exposed by the RC into unions has clearly worked on you Bernie.  You need to take some of your news from other sources than Aunty, as you are completely missing the extent and seriousness of the criminality being exposed by the RC into unions and its obvious links to federal ALP.Let's face it, Gillard dispelled hate onto others by the bucketload.  And has receive the same back in spades.

None of the abuse toward Gillard as PM was new.  None of it can be justified as being "only due to Gillard's gender".  Gillard was only the second Australian PM in history who failed to grow with the office of PM.  The other was Kevin Rudd.  Neither can blame their sex for their failings as flawed individuals with hate fuelled agendas.How do "personal attacks" stop anyone from doing their job?

The fact that Gillard failed to grow with the role of PM was the result of her own flawed and hate filled personality.  Nothing more, nothing less.

The thing that I suspect irks left wing fright bats the most is that even John Howard grew with the office of PM.  Gillard failed miserably.Probably because even a left wing hornets nest like the ABC can only flog a dead horse for so long, Stan."the possibility of corruption".

It always amazes me that left wingers can simultaneously ignore the plethora of perjury, corruption and criminality in the union movement, and its links to the ALP, whilst condemning Abbott on what..........an unproven smear that there "might be" corruption involved?  Does Abbott's corruption look anything like what former ALP president Williamson is serving prison for?

Not sure if you saw any of the Royal Commission coverage recently, Kerrie, but one witness confessed to perjury when her elaborate story was torn to shreds by forensic evidence, two other witnesses were bashed prior to giving evidence, and another witness intimidated outside the commission during the lunch break.  How can you condone the thuggery within our union movement yet denounce the LNP without a skerrick of proof?  It is just a really really odd situation.Hang on Mungo, wasn't it you who was calling for the abolition of the State governments only 2 years ago?  Convenient then, with an ALP Federal government and incoming LNP State governments left right and centre.

Seems your every statement is nothing more than ALP rhetoric.  Who'd have thunk it, eh?David, you are showing the very ignorance of the matters arising from the Union RC that results from ABC reporting only half truths and misleading headlines.

You'd do well to read and learn a little more broadly than what Aunty dishes up as "news editorial".

The criminality being exposed within the union movement and its direct links to the upper echelons of the ALP go far and beyond the breach of electoral funding laws in NSW.  The live feed of the RC on 23 October, with George Alex in the stand, will be very illuminating if you wish to learn more about what the RC is doing.  Your choice of course, but to conflate the union and industry super fund criminality with NSW electoral law breaches is simply childish.Au Contrraire, Tom1.  

The ABC and Fairfax have summarily dismissed the RC because it "has not found anyone guilty", hence the belief that the RC has already failed, is well and truly entrenched at Aunty and amongst its sheepish followers.

There MUST be more to the evidence being uncovered than just a "political witch hunt", after all, eh?What is also interesting, Peter, is that the same leftist hacks that are now calling for LESS federal government power, were the very ones calling for abolition of the State governments two years ago.

Alpo and the crypt of socialists on this place are like the mob on the Simpsons.....they change tune every now and again, but basically they are happy to be led by the nose on most issues rasied by the likes of Cassidy et al."The unions exist primarily to assist their members in uneven disputes"

Fallacy.  The unions exist for the purpose of delivering financial and political power to selected union officials.  No more, and no less.

How else do you explain the CFMEU entering one EBA after another with George Alex's phoenix companies which left workers entitlements unpaid time and time again, all with the complete endorsement of Dave Noonan and Co.?

How else to you explain CBus releasing private and personal information about its super members so that known criminals linked to the CFMEU could intimidate them into joining the union?  How can any rational sober person forgive that kind of abuse of sensitive member information, putting their own members at financial and personal risk?

The unions exist for one reason only today.  For the financial and political power of union officials.  The sheep that allow this to continue or the clueless union members and those who place their superannuation savings with the boards dominated by the likes of Dave Noonan.Well said.

Note how Cassidy acknowledges that the ALP will be "embarrassed by extension" out of the RC findings, but don't expect him or the ABC to actually investigate or report any of the facts or links to the ALP."embarrass the ALP by extension".  Yes, Barrie, but one can expect that such reporting of links between union corruption and the ALP will be left to the public to "imply".  The ABC has and will continue to do all it can to ensure the links between criminality and the ALP are downplayed, ignored or just simply denied.  You are bound by a charter of impartiality, mate.  How about you start abiding by it and actually investigate and report where the links actually go?the problem, Los Pablos, is that we have to PAY for the ABC regardless of the fact that it long ago took a decision to forsake all and any conservative viewpoint in its news and editorial stance.

No body is FORCED to pay for News Corp publications, are they?Just because ABC journalists are paid more than they would ever be paid in a commercial environment (where their leftist ideals would be held in check via the reality that profitability is based on unbiased content) does not mean these journalists are "world class".  They are just paid more than they should be via taxpayer funded largesse.Agree.How is an efficiency improvement akin to "destroying" the ABC?

Fact check, anyone?
