I think you are right there. The major parties aren't looking too good right now. What is really missing is a leader.

While Shorten is miles ahead of Abbott he isn't the type of leader we need right now. It would be great to get someone that one could really trust and inspire. I just don't see anyone that fulfils that bill.

I reckon we are caught between the will of Murdoch and that of the unions and it is not a good place to be.

When even the LNP start talking about a DD election when they are miles behind in the polls the nation not only the government has problems.


How about we just try and find a leader. At present that person is well and truly hidden epically from the eyes of the voter.


Without a leader you get the sort of half baked ideas we have now. But seeing that we don't have such a person to test that theory what I say is only words.

Yep fully agree to a DD ASAP.

The sooner we see the back of Abbott and hopefully Palmer the better.

Its either that or the LNP dump Abbott and get someone that can actually lead the nation.




Anything has to be better then what we have. I just wish Shorten would take on the unions more.

We seem to have a situation where the far right represented by Murdock and the far left represented by the unions (are they leftist not really but you know what I mean) control the leaders of the two major parties. And god lets not talk about the Greens.

Minorities everywhere but no leadership to drink.

Got me at this point in time but I KNOW that Abbott shouldn't. At what point do you understand that he is a disaster? Do you really like a country run by a Tony in Palmer clothing?


Why to appease Russia? What should be said is that Russia is choosing confrontation. They could easily join in with other European nations but see threats instead. It is their choice not Europe's. 

As for the actions of the Germans to broker a deal it was reported in today's  NY Times that Malaysia's Prime Minister Najib Razak?s announcement his government had reached an agreement with pro-Russian separatists in eastern Ukraine, for the transfer of the bodies and so-called black boxes from Flight 17 to Malaysian representatives there, apparently achieved what pressure from far more powerful nations had failed to accomplish.

This was accomplished the article said in large part because  Malaysia had over the years walked a line between Russia and the USA and were trusted by the Rebels.


Those poor people died for no reason. How sad. When will this sort of nonsense ever stop.Where did my comment jump to any other conclusion other then it was a senseless act?


Shane did you read Joe and Crows comments?

Why not find out what actually happened before you make such comments?

Yep they sure do and they are bastards for doing it but Israel doesn't deserve any praise they've left enough dead kids on the beech to last a life time.

Damn both sides to hell and let the world tell them so. Maybe then we can be finished with the monsters that are running the show in this area of the world.


It has not stopped the boats hence why we have 153 people sitting on an Australian navy ship. 

It is NOT illegal to seek asylum. This nonsense pushed by the LNP is childish and if we are ever to get a humane and adult approach to this issue that thought has got to stop.

People have stopped drowning that is correct and if that were the only issue then it would be a good thing but it isn't.

Because you don't see what is happening to these people doesn't mean somewhere else they aren't also dying. Pushing the problem onto other countries less able to deal with the situation is again childish approach.

we are disgusted by the treatment of our dead in the Ukraine but at the same time we are treating living people in a more brutal inhumane manner.

Before you state it I am not backing the approach of any other party I thin k they are all wrong. I wait to see the report on how we might better deal with this issue. I would then demand that all parties get off their high horses and talk other approaches thoroughly.

WRONG. Best try to keep up with the news cycle.
Those 157 that were detain at sea by the Australian Navy? Guess which country they are heading towards? Right good old Oz.

Your comment is childish.

Menzies sign the convention. That should be enough of a reason for Australia to abide by its regulations.Maybe you will get a chance to welcome the 157 the Australian Navy having been holding in detention onto Australia soil.

Good one eh?

"A refugee is a person who is outside their home country because they have suffered (or feared) persecution on account of race, religion, nationality, political opinion, or because they are a member of a persecuted social category of persons or because they are fleeing a war. Such a person may be called an 'asylum seeker' until recognized by the state where they make a claim"Further to my previous post ...

Article 14 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights states that "Everyone has the right to seek and to enjoy in other countries asylum from persecution." The United Nations 1951 Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees and the 1967 Protocol Relating to the Status of Refugees guides national legislation concerning political asylum.Article 14 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights states that "Everyone has the right to seek and to enjoy in other countries asylum from persecution." The United Nations 1951 Convention"It has not been easy for organised world opinion in the United Nations or elsewhere to act directly in respect of some of the dreadful events which have driven so many people from their own homes ... ask MenziesThat's a nonsense statement. 

Everyone has the right to apply for asylum, EVERYONE.

If they are proved not to have a case then they should be sent back. It would be at that point they would be considered illegal not before their case is heard.

The sooner all sides sit down and talk this issue through like adults the better for the country because right now it is tearing the country apart.


John51 Agreed and it is disgusting.

Because they have not reached Australia doesn't mean they aren't trying. Otherwise why would there be 157 asylum seekers sitting out in the middle of the ocean on an Australian Navy Boat.


"STRAW MAN! No one has said it is illegal!" read some of the comments made above.

"Gee, I bet that hurt to admit." It is just this sort of childish reply that moves the discussion into a pointless position.

Why would you care if they were drowning if you don't also care what is happening to them in another country? 

Yes they are doing what YOU want them to do that doesn't mean the rest of the country agrees.

And how do you know this? Have you had a long and in-depth discussion with them?

And that can only be determine once they apply.WRONG, the 157 are now on Australian soil. Try another lie.


"ability to accommodate all the migrants in the world" ... the richest median wealth in the world can't accommodate these people but the poorest countries should? What is the sense to that comment?

What do you think will happen to these poorer countries that have to take people you think are too much of a burden for us? The greatest cause of extremism is poverty. Think about it.


That was an often talked about concept which seems to have fallen off the table. While I can see problems with the concept surely we can do better regarding the movement of people then we are at present.


Without the slightest doubt this issue is proving very difficult for Australians. 

The present approach of a government cone of silence over the actions they are taking plus the treatment of these people claiming asylum and the detention of children is beyond the moral pale. It is disgusting.

However when we look at the policies of all parties none of them seem to show a real touch of what is happening and what can possibly be done.

At the end of the day with over 50 million people displaced by war, famine, brutal governments, other countries are being swamped by these people.  So the number in need would preclude that a requirement for some control over those accepted. 

I don't want people dying at sea trying to reach Australia nor do I want them sitting in some Australian ship waiting for our courts to decide their fate.

Australia really needs to look hard at the alternatives. The decisions made should be across party lines. There must be a realisation that these people are not criminals, they are not illegal, they are seeking asylum and that they deserve as much respect as any person.

We need actually to start acting like adults.



"the policies of all parties" what is the definition of the word 'ALL"?


Then the 90% should be ashamed.

Then the 90% should be ashamed.

Palmer's bully-boy behaviour  as you call it is in direct response to Abbott's stupid budget. 

The question now has Abbott learnt a lesson on how to act or not, his government depends on it.


This issue was handled well then there are the rest of the issues that will determine Abbott's fate.

Maybe now he will revisit the budget and the asylum seekers and see if he can put as much heart into those issues. I hope he can.

No actually I don't. As it stands I don't support any of the approaches by any party. But those are real people dealing with real issues and they deserve respect.

First off, Abbott gets what he has given out. If he can't take it he shouldn't have dished out his crap in the past.

Second, the budget is not bad eh? If he had gone to the election with this budget then maybe you could argue that point but he didn't he lied.

Third, The asylum seekers are human beings. They are not criminal they are as is their right seeking asylum. It is neither you right nor Abbott's to vilify those people.

Fourth, Abbott has accomplished very little and what he has done OTHER the  this the issue regarding the shooting down of the plan a mess an utter mess. Only a blind rusted on Abbott supporter could try and say it was anything but.

You've stated you personal view and I have every right to state mine.

I agree but he has done well enough to deserve some credit.

Now he just has to behave the same way regarding the budget and the asylum seekers.

There is of course a difference. The plane was carrying Australian citizens. The crimes that are occurring in Gaza don't.

Should he speak up about this issue? I can't see what he could do because until the fanatics from both sides are eliminated there won't be any peace.

I am sick of the lot of them.

We are talking about Abbott can do regarding Gaza. If he wants to wade into that situation fine but I doubt he will.


Bishop I agree handled, from what we can tell, her job well. Abbott  not so well. His efforts to make political mileage out of this is disgusting.

For instance, telling us over and over again how he has tried to phone the families impacted is callous. That is something that should be kept private. If he really wants to help the families set up an information line where they are informed what is happening or going to happen BEFORE it makes it to the news. Also offer them private support bodies who will help them deal with their grief. This might well be needed for years for a few.

Every time I see him trying to scrape some political advantage from this I am totally disgusted.

"Abbott and Bishop are only phoning the families when the families request it through the government liaison people ." and who do the government liaison people work for? Those people are asking the family members involved if they want such a phone call. Dah.
That is blindly obvious.Do a search on how the Malaysian PM handled the situation and the success he had. There are other ways.

As for Bishop she did her job well at the UN. Abbott hasn't.

Telling us over and over again that he has tried to contact the relatives of those that have died isn't what is called for. These families should be set up with an information contact that tells them what is happening BEFORE it makes it to the press. They should also be set up with professionals that can help them deal with their grief.

I don't want a hairy chested pollie trying to gain political advantage I want one that can stand up and calmly tell the Australian people what is going on, why and what is being done to help those most affected.

Handled this disaster well? Better then expected yes but well? It was good to get the resolution passed the UN, so good for that.

However I didn't need a comment from him that his daughters had taken that same airplane in the past nor did I need him to make the bringing home of the remains a 'mission" nor did I need to see him playing king of the mountain with Putin. 

It would have been nor leader like to acknowledge that it was the Malaysian PM that made contact with the rebels and got their agreement to release the bodies and let investigators onto the site. 

Again he has done better then expected and I would think it would improve his popularity but please stop making this an opportunity to increase your own position Mr Abbott.

Actually he did. 

So try againWell you see my comments come from direct knowledge of the families involved. 

I'll try again ... first off why is it that you make everything personal? "Your mealy mouthed attacks are tiresome to say the least."

I've made my comments not only from what I've heard Abbott say but from one directly impacted by this event.

An example of how Abbott could have handled the situation was demonstrated by the Malaysian PM. He worked quietly behind the scenes and did not big name himself.

 
He is the leader of the country and should be held to account the same as any leader.

While Bishop has done well Abbott has muddle through.


Where did you pull that one from? 

If you really read my comment you would have noticed I gave plaudits to Bishop because she deserved them.

Abbott used the situation more to gain votes then anything else.

What exactly is the difference?

The question I am asking myself is when will the government actually understand that before they lay an idea out for public scrutiny they actually have some idea what it will entail and be able to explain it clearly?

Information regarding my life and everyone else's is being picked over my every living organisation. Why should I allow someone else to have a go?

And to top it off while our ASIO hot shots weren't looking are boarders have been well and truly breeched not by boats but by planes?

First you have to convince me that someone actually knows what they are doing and that this isn't just some political play to get the attention of the voter away from the mismanagement of the government.


I agree that Muslims should speak out against such actions. And those of Jewish persuasions should speak out about the events in Australia and Palestine. 

In fact we should all be speaking out about the actions taken by both sides in the Middle East and not damn one side without damning the other.


Why do you always have to trivialise things? Can't you ever think before you comment? When young adults get on a bus and terrorise young children it is a deep concern. The entire history of religious hatred has killed millions of people.

You really have hit the bottom of the barrel with this comment Alfie.

Just a thought but maybe because millions upon millions have been killed because of their religion? And because as we write our comments thousands more are dying? 

There are tensions between Poles and Germans and the Irish and the English but they pale into insignificance compared to what is happening regarding deaths caused by religion."nothing trivial about bagging Kiwi's (or Poms)." ... are you seriously telling me that we are even on the same page? 

After the holocaust I find it highly insensitive and down right stupid to make jokes about the religious hatred. A hatred that has caused millions of deaths and to even think that bagging Kiwi's is the same thing as religious hatred is imbecilic. 

"In 2012, the Labor government outlined its own data retention scheme in a discussion paper, "Equipping Australia Against Emerging And Evolving Threats".

It's fair to say this proposal wasn't widely supported by the opposition, industry or the general public at the time."


What has changed from 2012?

With all the data theft going on it is hard to trust a government that lies to gain power in the first place and changes its view on even the necessity of such an effort.

One suspects that like Labor it is a chance to gain support.



Are you trying to tell me that the Abbott government functions? At what level?

Unable to get its budget passed. Back flipping at every chance, having lied to gain power, unemployment sky rocketing, unable to gain any traction in the polls and I am suppose to believe the Abbott government has anything to offer but more mismanagement?

To start with the government has to be able to actually explain what it wants to do and then why it is necessary. To date that hasn't happened.

It is a problem they have had in a number of areas and they just don't seem to learn the problems it causes for them.

There will soon be changes to how unemployment is calculated. It will now only note those that have never had a job and are over the age of 85.

That should help lower these numbers.


Does this change in any way your support for the LNP?

According to Turnbull we have to wait to see how it will work after the consult the public and others. The obvious question how can the public make comment if they don't know what is being  proposed and for what exact aim.

While I don't disagree with everything you write the dark side is as you stated ... "best security cannot secure the data fully",

The first question I guess as well is does the government really need this information to keep us safe.


As the only one to reply in anything other then the negative I will respond to your comment.

Is it happening already, good point, in numerous countries the answer appears to be yes. Has it made those countries safer? Well that seems to be no but then how can we possibly know?

That is the beauty of the spy business they can say whatever they like and because of their lack of transparency how can we know?

In this particular area I tend to support the Libertarians. The government can know too much and can abuse that information. The reason that message resonates so well is that government's are caught out all the time lying to us.

I guess I'd rather take my chance and not have the government gaining more access to my personal life until they start sharing information with me. I point to their actions taken in asylum seeker camps and those trying to reach this country for asylum. 

Destroying trust is easy building requires an effort and I just don't think Abbott is keen on that point.

Cheers.Point taken.
probably not but from the sound of it the USA are already getting the information. Maybe we should just ask them if we can but it off them and save the middle man.



"In 2012, when the scheme was last discussed, the hacking group Anonymous stole customer data from the ISP provider AAPT and released it on the internet to highlight the potential security risks" ... That outlines just one of the problems but the larger problem for the government will be once again their selling of the idea.

Are people more afraid now then in 2012? Maybe the world continues to demonstrate that it has many nasties out there. But can we trust a government to really protect us by downloading and keeping every contact we make? I don't see how. It might well help in the aftermath of an attack but I suspect not in preventing it to begin with.

If Labor ends up supporting this bill it will lose my vote. I'll find an independent to place my X against.

I voted last time against Abbott. I have stated that this time if Labor supports this proposal I will find an independent to vote for.

And what of you? Are you happy to vote for either Labor or the LNP if these laws are put into place?




A bit cynical Peter? 

I wouldn't hold a lot of faith that these figures are as bad as noted. When such quick rises happen they tend to  be adjusted later but there is a problem and the answer isn't clear.

The government claims that by it spending less money that the economy will grow. I don't quite get how that would work so if there is anyone out there that wants to explain who with a weakening economy the government not spending helps.

The real problem hasn't hit us yet and that is the closure of the auto industry. I think that is due to start in 2015 with Ford and build from there.

I see some grow in farming, maybe, but they don't tend to need a lot of people. Possible growth in building if prices keep increasing, but that looks more and more like a bubble out of step with what is happening. The building of roads should help but not in the short term.

I've read that buyer's and business confidence is waning. If that is true we could be in for some big trouble. Another few months should tell us whether we should bend over or just exhale.

Is there any point when you will acknowledge that the LNP are now the government and have been for some 10 months?

Yep lets not let facts get in the way of one's election chances.

Your approach is one usually taken by conservatives that at one point want freedom to vilify and then mandatory laws regarding data retention in case we can catch a bad guy.

If one trusted the government. If one knew that there were measures in place to keep government officials from abusing these same laws then maybe I could support them. The problem is that sooner or later a person discovers that the government is abusing those laws. 

So call me a bleeding heart whatever but I don't support giving the government more laws to keep check of what I am doing. 

Tap, tap, tap, hear that Tony? Probably best to put that comment in my file with the rest.

Glad we can agree on that point but you know they do anyway especially in my home country.

I doubt the dumping of changes to 18C were related to Islamic concerns but those of the Jewish population.

while the new laws are directed squarely at Muslims.

The question is are they justified? That is going to be the issue in the selling of the concept and on pass performances one has reason to doubt this government's ability in that area.

It has been widely published that Muslims youth joined in fighting in the Middle East. Does anyone know if Jewish youths did the same? I have no idea. And would it matter if they had? Really one would think the rules would apply across the board.

The concern here is the overall impact of these new laws. Are they just going to isolate the Islamic community even more giving rise to even more discontent?  I thought the usual way of dealing with such issues was dialogue. that seems to have been left by the way side.

Hard times I reckon, very hard times ahead.

Hard to know isn't it? Do the Muslims that go and fight consider themselves doing service to their country the same as the Jews?

That is always the problem when government's try to vilify one part of the community and ignore others that act a similar fashion.

Determining right and wrong, seems to depend on where you are sitting.

If the papers had not been full of leaked documents detailing government abuse of private information you might have a point.

I don't see how you can turn your head to yet another attempt of government to get inside your house to spy on you.


APM let me get this straight. These new laws then are directed squarely at Muslims correct? And this is OK because they don't really accept Australian values?

Just checking.



Third time lucky. So I assume the answer is yes.

I wonder how Muslims feel about being singled out as a threat.

Scary isn't it? I wonder if the LNP supporters that were against changes to the media tried on by Gillard will also be upset over Abbott's version of a Brave New World.

Being cynical I suspect this has more to do with an attempt to improve his polling then anything else. It worked a treat for Howard.

If you say so. So you support Abbott's new laws?


Good comment. Would these new laws change your vote next time?

For the record if Labor backs them it would change mine.

Well I see you want to cross swords yet again over Abbott's daughter. First off the person responsible has been arrested so why don't we let the courts decide if what she did was right or wrong? You do believe in our legal system I assume?

Murdoch's News Of the World hacking scandal sent a number of his employees to jail and if it does the same to the person responsible for releasing of information regarding Abbott's daughter's "scholarship", so be it but that still doesn't preclude people asking why it is alright for a person with hardly a great skill in design gets a full scholarship while others with proven skill in fashion and much higher grades get nothing. And that this person is the daughter of the same person who is the head of the school is approached about changing the HECS scheme to include schools like hers.  

Were you against Gillard's mission against the Murdoch press? What's the difference between that and this latest 1984 conservative attack on civil liberties? 

Terry, I will try for the third time to answer you as well.

First I support 18C. Andrew Bolt was making comments against people who claimed benefits because of their race.

I am questioning how a politician can claim his daughter's free education was not connected to an alleged request by the Director of the school for HECS benefits to be given to people wanting to gain access to his school.

See the difference?He is trying to dumb down his rhetoric so lawyers can understand what he is trying to say.

Sure you put your foot in it every time you write. 

I am not unemployed, I am a full time artist, with numerous exhibitions coming up and sales to prove my status.

You continue to misrepresent my concern. It was never against the daughter it was always against the father.

The topic needs a lot more discussion. The story is not clear at all what happened nor is it clear to me what the laws are in each state.

After a full and frank discussion we should implement federal laws. Disjointed state laws would only allow for a possible abuse of the system.

"Who will ASIO have to tell before cancelling someone's passport?" ... and if they cancelled your passport and didn't tell you would that be OK?

I would have thought with all the leaks that have been published over the last few years that people trusting governments to hide what they are doing and making arbitrary decisions on what we say and do would be a worry.

Do you really trust the government after everything that has been uncovered regarding their past misjudgements? WMD for instance.

We are talking about laws here in Australia. What they do in the US is a situation for them to deal with.

I think it is fair to say that trust in government is important. So it is probably best not to lie to them in an effort to get elected.

Quote from Greg's profile .... "He was campaign manager for the WikiLeaks party in the 2013 federal election, but is not a member of the party. He has worked for a number of Liberal leaders and ministers from 1989-1999, and ran the 1999 Republic Referendum campaign for Malcolm Turnbull.

I repeat the words ... "He has worked for a number of Liberal leaders and ministers".

And who might that be?many successful economies and periods of growth happened in deflationary economic environments. ... please name some."The finance sector and the bankruptcy sector" ... really. I think you'd find that during a deflationary period the loans that a financial sector gave out wouldn't be worth the paper they were written on.

As for the bankruptcy sector well bully for them. Is that going to keep a nations economy going?

The very last situation a country wants is deflation to take hold.
John it was the financial sector that would have gone under without government help. If we went into a deflationary cycle they would go under like they did during the Great Depression.

The only sector that might have done well would be as you noted the bankruptcy sector, again hardly an industry that would keep a nation afloat.

We are talking during deflation. Read up on the Great Depression, a deflationary period. 

Japan has been trying for decades to get out of deflation and its not until lately that it looks like they might succeed, though I doubt it.

Interesting information as per normal.

This should be shown to Abbott and Hockey. They've done a major backflip on 18C now they need to do one on how they approach the budget. That is if they want to stay in government.

gbe, whatever. You'll never see what is obvious. The Abbott's budget will need a major rework before he can even think about being re-elected. Start at page one and work your way to the end.

I write four sentences in two comments and I am told that I "rage blindly" and should argue "coherently" while you carry on for eight sentences in just one comment. Which of us is raging blindly?

In broad terms if the LNP want to get re-elected my suggestion is to change the budget from one that takes over $800 from the poor and some $17 from the rich to that does the opposite.

By the way that would probably increase my taxes but I can afford it while the poor cannot.



Did I want 18c repealed? No it was fine the way it was.

As for the $17 that was shown on yesterday's news. I doubt it is accurate but I thought I'd throw it in just to get your interest.

But how about this change the ratio of heavy lifting from the poor onto the well off.

First off I'd knock Ministers from their private jets. Second I'd take back the $9 billion I gave to the RBA. Third I'd not destroy the auto industry, at least not until other industries are taking hold. I'd also not buy billion dollar jets. I'd also find a way to tax mining companies profits much of which are leaving the country. 

You know and Hockey knows the deficit is not a problem now the fear is what will happen when my generation retire and require care.

It doesn't serve the country to bang on about straw men.


Which party said there was a budget emergency?


For starters no one but a LNP die hard things there is an emergency.

Second the present budget is deemed by people to be unfair and when you look at Treasury figures that is clear.

So how about we just change the ratio, as judge by Treasury,  of the heavy lifting?  

And this is just the start for Abbott.

I am curious what do the LNP supporters think of Abbott's backtracking on the hate laws?

Is there a point when Abbott backflips too much and where would that line be?


Compassionate treatment of asylum seekers? Tell that to the kids we have locked up.

One good sign is Abbott's dumping of Brandis's desire to support bigots. 

Maybe we will soon see him welcoming children once claimed to have been thrown overboard.

Mick wake up Abbott is a disaster that is dragging down the country. The question is what is to be done.

Can anyone turn hi around? I doubt it.

Is there anyone in the LNP to replace him? Turnbull is often mentioned but he doesn't have LNP support. Julie Bishop? Well probably not but we will be reaching a tipping point where anything or one is a possibility.

Its the economy that is going to suffer if this present mess continues. 

Is your only answer to stick with Abbott? I hope not.


First off I love the photo.

Anything is possible. Abbott like the rest of us can hit the reset button as you suggest though there is nothing in his past that shows he is willing to do that.

He did handle the air disaster as well as one could expect of any PM. That had to be very difficult though I am still uncomfortable with sending people into a very dangerous area.

But for him to hit the reset button on the rest of the problems he would have to do a major reshuffle of his Cabinet. Hockey Brandis, and Morris would have to go.

Abbott would also have to rid himself of his thought bubbles, a condition that just heads him deeper into the poo.

Really I don't see any avenue of redemption for Abbott and with a DD not likely for another year or so I would think the more likely outcome would be a change in leadership. I think Reith advocated Julie Bishop for the spot. Now that would be interesting.

And has a steely eye. No it was more that she handled the air disaster reasonably well and the mere fact she is a she and the men of the LNP would hate being led by a woman was why I suggested her. 

Desperation? Probably but who else do they really have that has actually done anything?

Turnbull is on the nose for the LNP and the rest of them couldn't win a chicken raffle. 

This situation only seems like getting worse as one after another LNPers put one foot in Abbott's mouth after another. It is impossible to imagine a government functioning any worse then this mob. Never in my memory have I seen such a dysfunctional group.


We are talking about Abbott so one tends to have low expectations.


How could you possibly come to the conclusion that I EVEN thought of speaking for everyone?

I always speak from my heart I try not to use the words "everyone" in my description of what I think has been done or needs to be done.


Alfie you are really in denial just look at the disunity of his government and you should be able to see the problem. Then if you want more support for the Abbott is dead in the water look at the polls.

Getting even half of what Abbott wants through the Senate is going to be a major problem. 

If you want the LNP to stay in power after the next election you should be pushing for a new PM and a brand new approach to governing.If the LNP have any young guns worth a hoot they best step forward soon.

The real problem is that the nation is stuck in low gear with Abbott as PM. The Abbott malaise is dragging the nation down without any hope for a new election any time soon it looks like we will be going from bad to worse.


Which PM just knee capped Brandis today? I suggest that more such kneecapping is to come.


Hewson is sounding more like an LNP that people could actually listen to. The more I hear him talk the more I like him.Its not up to us to reset Abbott's government unless of course he goes to the polls.

You are sounding more and more desperate. Abbott's government isn't liked because of what it has and has not done. If they were successful they wouldn't have to worry about those of us that dislike Abbott have to say.

Instead of making excuses for Abbott maybe you should be giving him some hints on how he can improve.

Ouch, you guys are even nastier then me. 

There is a certain logic to requiring them to submit a bunch of budgets then they might just luck out and find one that might work.

Or we could always go the hundred monkeys in a room hoping one of them would type out a decent budget.



Sino-Russian alliance, I wonder. That scenario has been played many times but never really come to pass. It would be an own goal to drive them together but I suspect they are uncomfortable getting too close for their own cultural reasons.

Both Russia and China have a choice. They can join with the Europeans and form an alliance that can strengthen them both politically and economically or they can fight. 

It will be interesting to see which choice they make.


When the poo hits the fan nations take sides so Australia isn't alone in that respect.

As for the reasons that make the choices they do is another question. Another 100 years and the ties that bind Australia to English speaking nations should be well and truly broken. By then maybe we can have an intelligent discussion regarding our direction and not just follow the English language direction.

My origins are half German though it was never talked about or were there any expressions of pride in that fact. 

However, growing up in the USA I never felt it as a stigma either. With uncles that went and fought and died on the side of the US it never meant much to me that my forefathers had come from such a hated country.

The other side of the family which came from what was once Bohemia were a happier go luck lot though they too never banged on about their heritage. The only thing I can remember my father saying about the issue of once being from a foreign country and now a citizen of the USA was that his father said if you live in America you should speak English and accept its customs. 

As for modern day Germany they should be proud of their achievements because there is nothing they can do about their past.

The unwinding of low interest rates should provide challenges, especially in the housing market.

I can't see how prices can continue to go up while incomes are staying below the level of inflation but they are, for now.

It seems that when a correction comes in the financial area it will be driven by a collapse in the housing market.

I have yet to read a way through this that doesn't end in tears.


More then one slice I think but lets see what happens maybe a miracle and he'll see the advantage of negotiation.

As long as anyone takes any sides in this conflict and tries to condone the actions of either party we have an even longer way to go.

Hamas knows that by putting civilians in the pathway of the conflict that their children will be killed. They don't care. And Israel for its part is so consumed with their hatred of Hamas they are willing to obliged.

Both sides have left any trace of humanity in the dirt. They don't care who gets killed nor how many. Their cause is worth any price. And every time you or anyone else's backs one side or the other you are just feeding into their inhumanity.


I damn Hamas to hell along with Israel that is obvious in my comment. The entire reason Hamas is feeding its children into this war is to gain sympathy from the west. That is the only way they can win.

As for Israel they have no more justification for killing children then Hamas has for helping them.

Neither side has an honest leg to stand on.


Hatred Zing for both sides not apathy.

If only it were that simple. The tunnel network is very large and built in such a way that it goes under schools hospitals residential areas and the like.

The entire purpose is to allow Hamas to conduct a war using civilians as collateral damage. And Israel for all its abilities, if it wants to rid Hamas of tunnels has to focuses on the destruction of these tunnels at all cost.

There is no way for Hamas to actually win this fight. Their hope is that Israel kills a lot of women and children and therefore forces the world to draw support from Israel. And so far Israel is buying into the fight.

Neither side has shown any humanity. They are acting as the most disgusting animals that have roamed the earth. As long as either still exists they will continue trying to kill each other.


Europe only came to its present peaceful state after millions upon millions of people were killed.

The root of the cause of the present conflict was the formation of Israel. So what is to be done? Dismantle Israel? Or dismantle all of the Arabs claims to that land?

Yes on Jewish terms, which is the problem. 




There will always be people trying to best the system whatever is put into place.

Training and education is the foundation to a strong economy. 

Spending globs of money punishing people would be better spent supporting the foundation mentioned.There will always be people trying to best the system whatever is put into place.

Training and education is the foundation to a strong economy. 

Spending globs of money punishing people would be better spent supporting the foundation mentioned.And those of us that will not tolerate such inhumane treatment will resist.

The treatment Australia is dishing out to these people is beyond contempt. And I will fight against it as long as possible.

And before you say I don't agree with either the Greens or with Labor on their approaches either.

Nonsense, they are here because they are desperate.

I have noted many times I do not support any political party regarding their approach to this issue.

The reason Morrison can get away with this inhumane approach is because of people like you.

Covering up the situation in these camps doesn't make the government's action right. It makes them contemptible.  


Some of the public. Because a majority supported Abbott doesn't make him right.

Let me explain the meaning of right and wrong.

Because a majority of those living in Gaza supported Hamas doesn't make their actions right. Nor does it make it right that a majority of Israelis support their slaughter of Hamas right nor the support the Putin, nor that that Hitler had.

Wrong is wrong. It doesn't make it right because a majority of people support a wrong.


Think some more APM. The point I was making should be clear enough  because a party is elected to govern doesn't make them a dictator. 

We are talking about children. Kept in detention. That detention seems to be causing them serious harm. No government has a right to take such measures.

The evidence that they are desperate could be cleared up if there were a procedure to hear their claims, make a determination and either set them free or send them back to their home land.

That Morrison wants to keep all of this secret should tell you something about that man.

The why not open up to this and other facilities to scrutiny?

How can you support this cover-up? If the government has nothing to fear then let an independent body investigate?

There is plenty of proof out there that when a government any government refuses to open its actions up to scrutiny then something is bound to be wrong.

And what they don't pay to the Liberal party they send over seas to share holders.

The problem with the mining tax isn't that it was formed but that it was done so in such a way that the miners could avoid paying any more real taxes to the Federal Government and the States made every effort to help them so they could get more money.

It seems to me the entire tax structure and rebates for the mining industry is half butt backwards but the very least the Feds can do is dump the diesel rebate.

Once again misdirection by the LNP faithful strikes. What does your comment have to do with the taxes being paid or not paid by mining companies have to do with Tasmania? 

Taking sides any side just encourages this conflict.

Hamas doesn't deserve a pat on the back. They know exactly what they are doing by sacrificing their children and as for the Jews they have their self-righteous believe in a right to a home land so entrenched that they are happy to oblige.

The reality is neither side is right. Neither side deserves support. They will keep on killing each other as long as they can find a means be it rockets or stones.

These guys have been going at each other since Israel was formed. The answer is, if they won't make peace is to just destroy the land called Israel and Palestine. Just blast it off the face of the earth.  Because these groups will fight to the death and drag the rest of the world into their conflict. They have tipped over the edge of reason and are a threat to the world, which has enough threats to deal with as it is.

Wrong, the conflict going on in Israel is the root cause of Islamic terror across the rest of the world.

The "consenting adults" concept can be placed across a wide range of issues, suicide for instance and drug taking. All of which I more approve of then oppose. The key is that the actions taken don't impact on others so I am wondering if that would be the case with polygamy.

You do seem to have a real focus on the issue of polygamy Ben. As for myself life is complicated enough with one spouse.

First off unemployment during the 1990's under Keating reached a high of 10.9 so why exaggerate? By the time he left office it was just over 8%. Not great but the rest of the world was also going through tough times.

As for interest rates they were higher while Howard was Treasurer. So what does that prove?

The actual article was about the present government's approach. It seems whenever uncomfortable facts are presented that LNP supporters avoid the topic and shoot over to when Labor was in power. Is it just too hard to defend Abbott's approach?


"Mark Latham is an erratic thinker at the best of times." ... well you've got that right. Talk about a loose canon.

As for how policy should be made well I think all major parties should get together and sort the big issues out. Compromise and get on with doing what is best for the nation and not for their political self's.

Yep I know won't happen in my life time.

Agreed but what can one do but hope?

If politicians thought of the country as one big family would they approach things the same way as present?

I suggest we lock them all in one room and tell them they can't leave until they have things sorted out between them.

There are countries in Europe where government is divided according to the percentage of the vote received. Hence parties are forced to work together AND yet their society functions much the same ways as ours.

You seem to want combat at all cost. It doesn't have to be that way.

You may not believe it but the world is changing and more for the better then the worse it just seems painfully slow.


Boomers aren't anyone's enemy. They are just people getting older like their parents and grandparents before them.

No generation has left a paradise for their children.

Correct it doesn't work that way. And that is what needs to change. 

Might I suggest that if we don't tell the politicians what we expect we will never get it?

Sorry what are you talking about?

Mr Green said both parties tend to make things glib, which I agreed with.

What I am asking for is a situation where there is actual debate and a structure that requires both sides to work together. Now that seems too much to ask but it is a bit more positive then supporting the present system.

Where did I call for "outsourcing"? 

There are countries that actually work together where Cabinet positions are divided up according to the percentage of the vote received.Sorry if I misunderstood.


News flash "definitely a breakdown in social trust brewing" ... that has always been the case best get use to it.

Neither does Hockey. He recently told NZ that there wasn't a budget emergency. So maybe you should first have a chat with him to find out the truth.

Oh and Norway is doing great because they tax their miner's something like 76% of their profits and put that money into schools and health. Whereas we want to get rid of taxes on our miners so they can send their profits overseas.



I was pointing how Norway deals with its miners and that maybe we should do the same. 

Waterloo was worried about us having to borrow money from Norway so my comment was a follow on from that comment.

It doesn't do you any credit to continue your unbridled support for everything Abbott. I have criticised Labor and will continue to do so.


Gosh you must earn a heck of a lot of money and not have a very good accountant to be paying that much tax.

It is acknowledge that tax breaks given by Howard were excessive and were ever only viable when the economy was doing well. 

The cuts have been labelled middle class welfare. Now you probably won't except that explanation but do a little research into the issue. I suggest reading business mags or newspapers, the ones that give both sides to the story.

Yes the situation was complicated by the GFC and Labor's approach and seeing that we don't have a sliding door sort of world where we can see what would have happened if we didn't take Labor's approach heck blame them as well if it will make you feel better.

Realist you have pinpointed the problem. There isn't an emergency there is a structural problem. Two totally different things.

So next when I have a go at the claim of there being a budget emergency you can jump in and support me and say the Yank is correct.   There isn't a budget emergency but there is a structural problem.

Now that we both agree we can then discuss what exactly that problem is and what can be done to correct it. We might make progress then.

"Government is embracing tabloid politics, where policies are reduced to a three-word slogan." ... what you finally noticed this?

I guess in their defence, in a way, is that this approach seems to work a treat. They are in power. No one ever questioned what they meant when they handed out these three worders so they are free to carry on saying we told you what we were going to do so why are you complaining?

As for the MH17 situation there isn't anything they can do really. It is now reported that the rebels have put mines on the roads into the area. Common sense would dictate that we call off the effort for now. Abbott show just get on the blower say we tried but the situation was beyond our control.

No sensible person would blame him for that. Yes he would have been wiser to think a bit more in the beginning and not made promises but leading is a learning sort of game.

As for the rest of his governing approach my suggestion is dump the LNP men and put in the LNP women. They seem to be the only ones capable of governing.




And Labor's use of the three word headline grabber is worse then the LNP's use of the terms?

Read Mr Green's article before you reply because his point, which I agree with, is that neither side does the public any favours with this approach.

As for v's comment the question could be asked why leave the AFP there if there is no safe way they can do their job? So yes bring them home.



"This PM and the LNP Govt will be savaged by Green and The Yank whatever they do"  ... 

First off if you really read Mr Green's article you would see he is bagging both major parties on their use of brief headline grabbers. A statement I agreed with.

Second the latest Morgan polls have Labor 10% ahead so it is not just myself and Mr Green that question Mr Abbott's work so far.

Not yet Brian but if they do send people into a war zone then yes stupid.


A quote of mine from above ...

"No sensible person would blame him for that. Yes he would have been wiser to think a bit more in the beginning and not made promises but leading is a learning sort of game."

Your comment ...

But I am pointing out, and will continue to do so, that you and Mr. Green do not like, have never liked, will never like, anything Abbott or the LNP do. 
Every day, in every way, you whinge about them. 

 Note my words ... "No sensible person would blame him "
In reality it isn't a numbers game. It is a matter of safety of the people be sent to the area.

You seem to be wearing your LNP heart on your sleeve. I suggest you don't take it personally.


Are you seriously trying to say that Netanyahu is behind the trouble in the Ukraine? 

Matters worse? They have never been anything but bad. As soon as the Middle East looks like gaining peace some extremist acts to derail the process.

When I was young people tending to side very much with Israel now it is for the Palestinians. As far as I am concerned they can both go to hell.

The US is to blame for every misfortune in the world no matter what it does. If it doesn't get involved it is criticised for that if it does the blame falls on them as well.

What a nonsense.

Russia is putting on a power play for the Ukraine. They tried to support its puppet even sending in sharpe shooters to kill off protestors. when that didn't work and their puppet was ousted they then started to send in paramilitary types to destabilise the country annexing Crimea and now trying to do the same with the eastern section of the country. And why? because they don't want the Ukraine to get too clos to NATO.

Russia had a choice it could join the civilised countries of Europe or continue trying to be a bully boy. Unfortunately it choose the later and now will be paying the price for that decision.


Unable or unwilling to deal with the point at hand you try to switch it onto the previous government. That is the sort of shallow thinking that you tend to lend yourself to 
Ben.

I don't know how obvious it has to be but there is a do or die war going on in that area and the participants don't really care about the niceties of bodies in a field. I suspect if you were one of the participants in that conflict you wouldn't either.

The Abbott bravado should end and the people told that the risk to those involved in the search for remains is too great and the government has decided to wait until the area is 100% safe to enter.

Yes I know it is hard but then the PM's job is to make hard decisions not foolish ones.


The very latest from BBC ...

Ukraine crisis: 'Intense gunfire' against rebels in Donetsk29 July 2014 Last updated at 16:24 BST 

Fighting has been continuing in the Donetsk region of Ukraine, the last stronghold of pro-Russian separatists.

The Ukraine military has been on the offensive, saying troops have entered several towns in the area.

The heavy fighting has again prevented an international team from accessing the MH17 crash site, 

Jonathan Beale is on the outskirts of Donetsk, from where he says gunfire from government forces seems to be getting "increasingly intense".

Now that you have a little actual information upon which to base a comment are you able to string some words together in support OR opposition to the government's planned mission?


Note the words: "increasingly intense".


This is an operation that puts lives at risk. Why in gods name are you comparing it to the NBN and other previous government decisions?

Bishop tried her best but what she and others seem to be forgetting is that this is a nasty war zone and UN resolutions don't mean much when you are fighting for your life.

A leader would recognise this and just tell it like it obviously is ... far too dangerous to send in investigators. When it is safe and only then will we send in the necessary people.

It is "pretentious" to question putting lives at risk?
If our personnel have entered into the area then maybe we should shed a prayer for their safe return.



You want some idea of what is going on? Listen to the news. Once again fighting has erupted to such a level it is deem too dangerous to travel to the area. 

There are plenty of sings that fighting is actually increasing with news that a high level Russia military man is now in Ukraine helping the rebels. Add to this the evidence that Russia's are firing at Ukrainian troops.

Surely common sense would dictate that it is foolish to enter such a war zone.

There is plenty to dislike about Abbott. 

In this situation however all I want is for our Federal Police to succeed. I just don't want them killed or take a risk of being killed. Do you?


Try and do some research on the situation. Are you telling me that you want Australians put in the line of fire? 

I don't if that makes me bias then so be it. How many Australian lives would you risk to return the remains?

No the government doesn't "have to do something". It has to correctly access the situation and tell the people the hard cold facts. It is a war zone and it is unwise to send in investigators at this point in time. That is what a leader would do.

Now it may become safe in a few days, a few weeks or months but THAT is the reality of the situation.


I owned an employment agency so I have some experience in the area and the very last thing an employer wants is a bunch of people applying for a job without the experience to do the work. That is why they were willing to spend big money to have an agency like mine cut through the no hopers and only send those really capable.

This is a red tape special which is going to be hated by employers. People need training not busy work.

Tell the businesses that don't want this scheme how positive it is I'm sure they will love combing through CV's of people that don't meet their needs at all.


You still trying to make excuses for Abbott?

During Howard's attempt to impose a work for the dole I ran my own employment agency. The only government program that actually placed people into jobs was one where people with basic IT skills were given a chance to apprentice with major companies that took a long term view of their IT needs. It was a great success. After a year all but one of the 40 people I placed were still employed. It was an ACT program. The armed forces took the most.

It was bleedingly obvious that skilling of the dole rather then having people do crap work was the best approach.

Thinking a bit more about this problem. If one lived in a rural community do you really think there would even be 40 jobs to apply for? Companies are going to be swamped with pointless applications from people not at all qualified for the work on offer just to appease this program. It is a stupid, waste of time. 

The government that was going to rid us of red tape has just created the biggest needless red tape of all. Makes no sense but then this is an Abbott government.

Would is telling you what will actually happen. The very last thing an employer needs is people wasting their time sending them applications that have little hope of success.

That is why they hire employment agencies like the one I ran they just didn't want the hassle.

Employer will hate this scheme. Does it sound fair to burden them with the job of sorting out this thought bubble?

What makes you think he hasn't?

The scheme is deeply flawed so much so that even business is against it.

News flash ... in today's AFR "Graduates face the worst job market in 20 years"  repeat in case you missed it 20 YEARS.

First there has to be work to look for.

In rural communities you'd be luck to fine 40 jobs available so what do they do apply for the same job twice?

This idea is just a bad thought bubble.


Consider these points ... Graduates now face the worst job market in 20 years ... repeat 20 years.

Business Council of Australia and the Australian Chamber of Commerce both oppose the concept. Are they members of the Socialist Alliance you are talking about?

Some rural communities don't have 40 jobs available in their area so what jobs are these people going to apply for?

Who is going to check to see if people have applied for 40 jobs?

With unemployment set to increase what company wants to be loaded down with useless job applications that will just make their job of finding the right employee even harder?

You talk about fruit picking as if it held any long term prospects? It is the perfect job for backpackers but hardly anyone wanting long term employment with ongoing bills to pay it is pointless.

Think a bit about this situation. We have to bring people into the country to fill positions we don't have the skills to do why not train people for those jobs?




"Mr Hartsukyer preferred the anecdote, saying that "the information that I get as I get round the country is that jobseekers who participate in work for the dole find it a rewarding experience, an experience that often leads directly to a job."

What idiot would believe that doing menial jobs is going to be rewarding? I've done plenty of them and never ever did I think they were anything but menial and mind numbing.

For gods with unemployment set to rise we need skilling of people not tasks that are a pointless waste of time but make some pollie feel that he is rewarding people.



The entire point of this program is flawed. Employers don't want a pile of applications to shift through it waste their time. 

They want people that are skilled so train people in the skills that the country is short on. Doesn't that make more sense then having people stand around picking up paper someplace or sending in piles of useless applications for jobs they know they are not skilled for?

Howards work for the dole was pointless. The program I noted worked. It gave people a chance to skill up and because employers didn't have to waste time sorting through applications and still got people suited for the job they were happy.

Common think a bit.




"will continue to welcome genuine refugees", not really we put a number on how many we will welcome and for me 1,300 is way too low. I would think double that to begin with and then look at what else we could do to help.

But the lady's point is that being classified as a refugee has a very negative connotation now a days in Australia no matter which path one took to arrive here.




If we were really smart we would wait until the fighting there was totally over. I cannot see the sense of risking more lives. It is just macho behaviour sending people into a war zone.

Exactly Jessie. How in hell's name is a force the size that is being talked about going to "secure" the crash site while a war is going on?

And if things went south how do you evacuate that force?

Waiting as hard as that is it is the only sensible position to take.



How many lives are you ready to sacrifice to have a heart? If you had even the slightest idea of the logistical nightmare this situation would present you would understand how imperative it is to wait.Agreed, so why does Abbott beat on and on about his "Mission Bring Them Home"?

An adult would not risk more lives but wait until things settled down.


Update from today's New York Times ...

"Fighting near the crash site forced a convoy of 20 cars carrying Dutch and Australian police officers to turn back. The police officers were hoping to secure the area to permit the recovery of remaining bodies from the jetliner crash and to enable an international investigation.

"The road to the site is now violently contested between pro-Russia rebel fighters and the Ukrainian military because it is also a route for supplies to reach the rebels holding Donetsk, the provincial capital, and for their wounded to be evacuated from the city."

Abbott supporters note the words "violently contested". Is it really adult to send armed or unarmed people into a fire fight? 



You mean we have nothing to say about what level of danger we put our people?

Bishop has also called today for these investigators to be armed.Australians don't have to go in if it is not deemed to be safe. 

If you listen to the news as frustrated as they are the Dutch have been sensible so far.

Because the rebels are a loosely knitted group that is ill disciplined and because of that are troops could get into a fire fight without any realistic means of escape. 

Seems to me Australians are much like that as well. As for myself I married a Canadian. With them its best not to mention their love of yellow snow.


There was always going to be a decrease in investments in mining infrastructure. The entire point of the investments made over the last few years was to be able to increase production to a level that the miners thought they would require to fill the customers needs.

What we are expected to see now are yes lower prices but because of an increase volume of trade an increase in profits. BHP is loaded with money. So much so they are thinking of a massive buy back scheme.

That this business is a company eat company thing should surprise anyone either that is the nature of capitalism. It's the nature of the beast.


I don't think it was a choice of governing or sitting on the opposition's bench. I think it was governing or going to another election in 2010 but we will never know for sure.

As for the present situation it is true that Abbott almost no matter what he does puts his foot in it, he can't help himself. 

MH 17 is a disaster but it is not a call to arms or shouldn't be. While Bishop handled things well Abbott had to make it political. 

He did at least acknowledge others then himself in trying to sort the situation out so a pat on the back for that effort but stop trying to make brining the remains back home some sort of military exercise that requires the risking of more lives.

There are so many other issues that need to be sorted out like the BUDGET! Why he made this an emergency issue is really a sure fired way to overstate the situation and has backfired on him badly. Did anyone read where Hockey has acknowledged to the Kiwis that there wasn't any emergency and that the Australian economy was going along just fine?

The most obvious problem with the Abbott government is that they will invariably state two opposing view points when it suits them. I don't know if they are just trying to confuse us or just don't understand what they are saying. 

The only solution is another election unless Palmer can figure out a way to manipulate Abbott into changing the focus of his budget.

Really? Did you guys listen to yourselves when Gillard was the PM? Hypocrite!

Abbott always was a head kicker for the Liberals, that was his job and it worked a beaut when he was in opposition but doesn't work while trying to govern. He struggles to bring his own side 'on side' so don't blame others for his failings.

Abbott is a nasty thought bubble with legs just ask members of his own party.


She went on to demonstrate a dangerous incompetence (sp) that has lessened us all!

And that is what you call measured? The highest median wealth in the world, low inflation , low unemployment, a government able to negotiate with minor parties and that is incompetent. I guess here I is the problem isn't it? You seem to use of a dictionary that is not available to the rest of us.Is that what you call it? Leading us where?

It is Abbott's job to govern. There isn't one thing he has done that hasn't been a train wreck.

As for Shorten he has at least begun to open Labor up to the members in NSW, will see about the rest of the country.

If you remember one of Abbott's finer moments was his acknowledgement of the good work done by numerous people regarding the plane crash one of whom was Shorten. For this Abbott deserves a pat on the back but it also puts play to you comments regarding Shorten.

Well first off the government has to understand what they really want to achieve other then spurting out neat little catch phrases like stopping the boats etc.

I am relieved that investigators have pulled out from the MH17 area. It was too dangerous. I realise it is heart retching for those that lost loved ones but we don't need more deaths. 

I can't understand why the authorities are not communicating with reporters seems like the wrong approach. I never got the impression that the media people were doing anything other then trying to tell a story.


"you guys in the media" .. while I was a journalist for a small newspaper at one time I never really considered myself part of the wider media mob.

But if their job is to tell a story and if that story doesn't make the authorities happy are the journalists then suppose to change the facts to fit the view of those in power?


Are you really saying that the ABC has been selective in its reporting of this issue?

If so how? I haven't seen or heard anything critical of the government in fact its been more positive then anything else.

Agreed. Dove is making simplistic statements.

On the need for and ETS, totally different.

On the need for decrease spending on health and education totally different.

On the need for child care again totally different.

The only issue that they tend to agree on is border protection. With the key difference here is one of the need for secrecy.

No the problem has nothing to do with both sides having the same plans. For once there is clear daylight  between the parties.

Abbott's trouble began when he lied to the electorate. If he had been up front and given a clear idea of what his approach was going to be and THEN couldn't get it through the Senate he would have been in a totally different position.

Note Tim's statement ... "feet of tofu and can't stand up for falling down" ... that clearly states the Abbott government.


How much longer Joe? Way too many stuff ups. Members of the LNP are running from the sight of him. 

Who will be the next Treasurer? A cabinet reshuffle has got to be on the cards. That would give Abbott a chance to dump the dummies and see if he can recapture some momentum.


Reading through the comments here and I find there is a distinct lack of support for Joe. Is this yet another sign that the rusted on LNP supporter have lost faith in Joe as well?

If so I guess it really is bye bye.Even the PM is not backing Hockey. His stumbling along has nothing to do with the coverage of the ABC.

"Can anyone really complain about being poor here" ... just curious have you ever been really poor? I mean so poor you couldn't afford a roof over your head? I have and it ani't fun.

Seriously I hope Abbott just keeps on with Joe and his other muppets so we can see the back of the lot of them sooner rather then later.


Welcome to the fray First ... you'll love the opportunity to share your knowledge.

Personally I hope Joe gets even nastier, as he is threatening to do. The more he gets stuck into the battlers the better. He may never get a budget passed but just think what it will do for Abbott's chances at the next election.

You are getting more and more frantic "a Happy ..."

Best relax Hockey has it all planned out he is going to bring down an even tougher budget. That will fix em.

I hope  "a happy ..." that the LNP use your words and your attitude to  the next election. It should work a treat.



There are some 37 spin doctors employed by the Abbott government. Might Alfie be one?The LNP's new campaign slogan ... "Australia a county of bludgers and parasites." NOW that should be a winner.

Do you write Hockey's speeches?

Bush, Howard and Blair had a plan to and look where that got that region. How many times do Australian have to blunder into situations outside our sphere of real influence?

ISIS is a regional problem that demands a regional solution. Where is Turkey or Saudi Arabia? Helping ISIS as I understand it. What makes you think we can solve a basically Sunni Shia problem?

Why not put pressure on them and other European countries? NATO should be heading the charge and Australia should be cheering from the sidelines. Doing anything lese is yet another case of Abbott folly.

A lot closer then Africa. Indonesia would be a worry. so why don't we try and kiss and make up to Indonesia?

Where are the European countries? Where is Turkey? Where is Saudi Arabia? Where are the other African nations? We have limited resources save them for when they are really needed.

Call me a cynic but this walks like and talks like an attempt to raise the pooling numbers before a DD election. 

Be afraid very afraid Abbott is behind in the polls with only Julie Bishop looking competent. 

According to News Poll, yes. According to Morgan the LNP is behind 44% to 56%. Which poll do you think is closer to the truth?


If I had not experienced Howard's be afraid mantra I might buy Abbott's attempt at instilling fear.

If Abbott wants support for any possible incursion into Iraq then hold an enquiry into how we got involved last time and hold those responsible for potential crimes against humanity.

Right now there is no reason for Australia to get involved, what is Europe doing or might I ask Turkey?

As I understand it ISIS is getting their weapons through Turkey so if that is the case why aren't we putting pressure on them? What's wrong with Italy, or Germany or other European countries putting their hand up?

Why does Abbott want to spend millions on this effort but leave our youth to starve for 6 months of the year?

Actually that's what you get when you trash the economy like Abbott is in the process of doing.

Remember the last time unemployment was this high was under another LNP leader.


It was a let them eat cake sort of comment.

Ask those that live in rural areas what they think of the tax. Their use of vehicles would not fall into the average range they have no choice.






Facts can be misleading. Think of it in percentage terms. an extra $10 a week to someone earning minimum wage is a lot to someone on $100,000 or more it is nothing.

And if you have no income for 6 months and have to fill out 40 applications a week it is an impossible imposition.

Its .04 cents per litre and it is a double dipping tax, GST is added on making the impact greater.

Abbott himself called it a carbon tax on steroids. Think about his comment.



Depends on where they live. Ask the voter that backs the Nationals how much they have to drive.


"It turns out Hockey had a reasonable case to make yesterday when pointing out lower income households face a smaller cost increase because they buy less petrol than those with higher incomes. The Treasurer later produced numbers from the Australian Bureau of Statistics and his department to back this up." your comment is almost as stupid as Hockey's. 

It isn't, one more time for the dummies, the amount that the poor will have to spend it is the percentage of their actual income. I mean how bloody obvious does it have to be?

If you have an income of $1,000 a month and hove to pay an extra $40 a month for petrol it is going to hurt you more then if you are bringing in $5,000 a month and have to pay an extra $80 a month. Is that really so hard to grasp?

And if you are under 30 and unemployed and cut off from any government support for 6 months of the year and have to apply for 40  jobs a week how can you manage at all?

You guys are totally out of touch with the real world not to understand the unfairness of this budget.

What we have here as Paul Newman said in Cool Hand Luke just before he receive a piece of lead between his eyes for his effort is a failure to communicate.

Abbott didn't bring this concept into the election and now he is dealing with the AMA to come up with a plan that an unelected body and a lying one can foist onto the public.

What a mess.


The connection between the GST, the co-payment to visit the GP is rather slim. but whatever.

The big problem is one of communication. If Abbott had gone into the election talking about such measures and still won the election he would be on much firmer ground. Howard did, Abbott didn't. Tell the truth to begin with would be a good starting point to get such measures through the Senate.

Problem, if the author says ... "I do want to know the gory, the lewd, and every bit of the nitty gritty that I have absolutely no entitlements to. If it's out there, I will devour it. Ravenously.

I don't bloody want it out there." ... how then would one get to know the gory details if the media doesn't present it?


Spot on fid..., now tell Abbott that the US is not going to send in ground troops. He would have heard that message straight from the US if he had bothered to stay in Australia instead of tripping overseas to have a few photo ops.Agreed the 6.4% is probably not correct. What does concern me more is that wages are going up less then inflation. Also that we haven't hit the bad patch yet, the closure of the auto plants and that there doesn't seem to be a plan as such to deal with the economy.

I don't buy a budget that takes away from those more likely to spend whatever they have to survive, the poorest, and not hit the rich.

What seems lacking is a Treasurer that people and business have faith in.


So the spin doctors have arrived, finally.

 "the Central Planning Committee", sounds like a Chinese approach. 

Is there some point when they are going to actually kick into action? Abbott has been in government for over 10 months, or are we to wait until the 2016 election to see all their plans?

Other then destroying manufacturing, cutting funding to education, making the unemployed youth starve for 6 months, kicking the oldies in their health pocket and cutting the taxes of mining companies, what are the plans to employ people? 

Your answer explains why unemployment is rising and looking to go up further yet.

There is no plan? Shock horror I would never have guessed.Sounds like you are one of the employed.

I thought it was fairly obvious having a job now makes it easier to have a go at being unemployed.

I've had some 40 different jobs over my life so I've been unemployed as well and some times it didn't matter how hard I tried if there weren't any jobs around it was more then just trying to get back in the saddle.

to say that some don't try because they just don't care about their standard of living is rather nasty and demonstrates why you tend to back the LNP.





Is having money in the bank a factor in deciding whether or not you are part of the unemployment figure, how gross.

I know what you mean when you get even around 50 companies don't want to know you. Best of luck mate. Let's hope Abbott caves in and calls a DD or has an epiphany and understands that you don't grow an economy by slugging the battlers.


I  agree. to say digital information is secure, if one believes the stories about hacking and I tend to, is foolish.

The only people this legislation would catch are the dumb ones. A terrorist if not home grown would fly in do their work and probably fly out.

The one thing that would help make us safer is having a government that didn't feel the need to lie to us to get elected.


If you've read my comments you would have heard an outcry not only about Coles but everybody else collecting data about my life. I've had enough, with all of them.

I am tired of having every action I take being collected and scrutinised by some organisation.

Is there any party out there that gives a crap about privacy?

Excuse me? What does 18C have to do with the government collecting data on me?

No free speech and the government collecting information about my  every movement is no where near the same thing.

Maybe in your world it is but not in mine.


I am not going to "get over" a government trying to make me feel afraid so it can have a further excuse to invade my privacy.

On this issue it is not just  Abbott and Brandis that wants some form of data retention., other then the Greens everyone is climbing on board.

Every supermarket, every bank, every web site, every web site provider, every layer of government, every government across the world, every bloody business. They don't ask they just do it.

Tap, tap, tap, Tony have you written this all down? I've had it with the invasion of my privacy.and you don't think others access your email address and track what you do? What phone calls you make, what you buy at a store, what sort of medical care you receive?

And what makes you think that ABC doesn't know your email address and won't pass it on to the government if asked?

Can't make phone calls with cash, can't search the web with cash either.

A few areas we can do something about with a little care but why should we have to take care? What gives others the right to collect and use our personal information with out our knowledge or consent?

With everyone and their dog able to gain access to my details I have flown over the tipping point.

I am fed up with it all. The banks, the grocery stores, the bloody barber wants my email address before he cuts my hair.

I don't trust the government, the banks, the grocery stores and I damn well don't want the barber to shift through my personal information.

Everything we do is monitored by some organisation. Enough is enough. Damn the government and all the rest. The question is how do I block them. Any ideas?




The budget, unemployment and punitive actions taken against the most disadvantaged. 


His lack of honesty has always been a problem that and a tendency to put his foot in his mouth regularly.

What he needs is an epiphany like St. Paul had on his way to Damascus.

Try starting from scratch with the budget. If heavy lifting is indeed needed take a similar percentage rate from each level of society. 

Find a little humanity regarding asylum seekers, why are we willing to help refuges trapped by ISIS but put the children of people fleeing such types of violence in prison. 

Put in an ETS with a very low price on carbon instead of the silly direct action which no one supports.  

Refine the mining tax so it actually brings in money.

Give struggling artist a pension equal to his own ... OK I was kidding about that point.

With unemployment going up to 6.4% we should all be concerned by a government that is giving train wrecks a bad name.

The starting point should be that it hurts each equally, if the poorest are not able to buy food or provide education for their young then the same level of lifting should be imposed on the rich.

You are assuming that the hatred between Jews and Hamas/Arabs will just stay in the Middle East. What if they bring their conflict here and other places outside Gaza?

While I fear Islamic radicals at present more then Jewish ones I think it is short sided to think their conflict will not spread. 

Therefore we should, in my opinion, damn them both with equal measure.
You are being pedantic. 

Extremists or  radicals if they believe in killing someone for a cause they are dangerous. The potential for them to spread their fight outside Israel and Gaza in my opinion is real. so don't let either side back in if they have fought overseas.

Add to that list Brandis, Hockey, Pyne and Morrison.

We should all pray that he either smartens up or calls an election because we can't afford too much more of this shambles.

Brandis and 18c, Hockey the budget, Pyne lack of education and Morrison lack of transparency. Those are all serious problems.

You might be ignoring them but the voter isn't.

If only sanctions work quicker. Changing South Africa's racial laws took years, so to those imposed on Iran regarding their nuclear ambitions, or not.

I'd rather this approach then blowing things up, however as far as Russia is concerned they will be causing pain in the Ukraine for some time yet.


If the only goal is to find MH17 then it won't help at all.

If the goal is to try and persuade Russia not to invade the Ukraine then maybe it will help a little. At least I'd rather try that then seeing troops sent in.

So what? If the response is to impose sanctions back like Russia has done it is better then killing several million people.

The entire point is who has the right to determine how long I want to live. And the answer is very clearly that no one but the myself.

Would there be abuses of that approach? Depends on how it is set up and administered. 

Are there abuses now keeping people living longer then they wish to? You bet."special" religious" education belongs in a church not a classroom.


She said she was nervous and just kind of blurted things out. I can understand that and don't have a problem with it. 

Better to know what these guys are actually thinking rather then seeing them hide their real emotions.
I reckon. It is really very funny though those prancing around in their red swimmers aren't very happy about it.

You get back what you put into things I guess.


Well according to PM Clive Palmer the LNP have to go back to the budget drawing board or call another election. 

Time will tell if he was pulling our leg or laying down the law.The shooting down of the plane is not an issue that the Senate would ever deal with, why even bring it up? Are you fishing for support of the LNP train wreck?


Bishop did well and so did the PM of Malaysia. Abbott so so. Trying to score political points off of this incident was very shallow.

Ask the voters they are the ones that handed us this situation.'The Senate lacks some legitimacy' to you but it is these people were elected by the law of the land. I would think a person with your supposed background would understand that part of the equation.

I'm not sure if the new Senate is going to be good or bad for THIS government but I do know it will present a challenge.

PM Clive Palmer has told the LNP they need to either put forward another budget or go to an election. It will be interesting to see what they choose.


At this moment in time I'd like to arrest the bum and try him for war crimes. However, lets wait and see what develops. 

We are after all talking about an event that will happen in November this year so there is time for Putin to see the light but if he doesn't then bugger the rest of the world either keep him out or arrest him. 

As I understand it there are  or were several airlines that send or sent their airplanes over that area. Why are you trying to excuse the actions of the Rebels?

No one has made them block investigators, no one has made them take the belongings of the people involved, no one has made them destroy evidence, as I understand it from reports in the US press that the Rebels would have known the type of plane that was flying over them.

Your comment is an insult to the people that have died.

I'll try again ... That flight path was used by other airlines flying at 33,000 feet heading towards Russia. There is no way that plane could have been viewed as a threat to the Rebels. 

And would you support a government that had Russian sharp shooters killing protestors?

Trying to deflect the blame from where is squarely belongs is a travesty.An the Iranians blew up an airliner over Scotland that is not the question here.

And the Russian also shot down two Korean airliners one of which lost all lives. 

The very obvious point is that Australians were killed by a missile shot from a rebel controlled area using a Russian weapon. We should react to that event not other straw men you and others are trying to distract the discussion with.

"on flimsy and unreliable evidence" are you joking or just poorly researching this event?

It is clear the missile was fired from rebel controlled area. It is clear that the Russian provided such weapons to the Rebels. Messages were over heard of Rebels acknowledging their success of shooting down an airplane at the same time as this airliner was shot down. The US Spy satellites caught a flash of a rocket being launched from the Rebel area. And there are photos showing a  Russian missile launcher leaving the town in question after the indecent.

Add to that the Rebels removing debris from the area and blocking investigators. Is all of that flimsy in your opinion?

Agreed, so when do we have a Royal Commission into how we got involved and who is should b e punished for that involvement?

Or is it better to have Royal Commission into pink batts?


Fine have one for them as well but you do realise Australia's invasion into Iraq has cost the lives of hundreds of thousands of people.

So one for those the 1,000 that drown and another for the hundreds of thousands that died because of our invasion of Iraq.

Deal?


What action precipitated the present situation in Iraq? As I understand it well over 10,000 were killed during the initial part of the invasion, many many more since then.

You can keep on making excuses but the deaths that are taking place are a direct result of the invasion. That action destabilised not only Iraq but the region. Hide from the facts if you like but they will continue to hang around the neck like a dead stinking rotten corpse of Howard, Blair and Bush.


Good

PS: we are talking about hundreds of thousands in Iraq alone not to mention the many more tens of thousands of deaths across the entire Middle East that are a direct result of the Iraq invasion.


 


And my comment was in regard to Dove's comment ... seems like a natural progression when we are talking about the current situation in Iraq.


ZINg at what point are you going to acknowledge that Howard, Blair and Bush made a mistake?

It is obvious to everyone in the world other then the loyalist of that trio.

There are plenty of tyrants that could use to be overthrown why stop with Iraq? 

The present situation in Iraq is a mess. It is a mess for numerous reasons. The major one being the inability of the past government to engage with its opposition. 

That being said it should also be clearly acknowledged that the invasion of Iraq was a major blunder for the great Middle East. The idea that the west can impose its approach to governing has well and truly gone off track and I double there was ever a realistic chance of that happening.

At the end of the day what governance takes hold there will be in the hands of the Iraqi people. They will have to fight off the interest of the other powers that would have it head one way or another.

What we should do is do a soul searching exercise into how we got involved, for what real purpose and how we can avoid making the same mistakes again.



My daughters best friend lost her parents and the distress she felt for her friend just broke my heart.

Such a pointless action causing so much pain. It is easy to see how those with a close loss of a friend or relative will be oh so difficult to deal with.

For what very little it is worth my condolences to all of those that lost a loved one.

Or if we want to strip it down to the very basic element the question could be is it OK to pollute the air, land and water or not.

Because when you look at the issue that is the bed rock bottom of the line question. No matter what you think about the impact of such pollution on the planets climate there is absolutely no question that coal fired power plants and energy produced by fossil fuels pollutes.



"If you hope to eat and defecate, you will be polluting some land" ... That is why we have laws regarding the disposal of waste. Why not have laws regarding the disposal of fossil fuel disposal. Surely no one would argue against that need?OK lets make it as simple for you as possible. Why are they separate? Pollution is pollution. We have laws regarding the control of such pollution. That the implementation of new laws will not only help clean our skies BUT also have an impact on stopping climate change is what is called a win win approach.

I didn't say CO2 is the pollution that will cause your lungs to malfunction. I said the elements relating to the burning of fossil fuels will do that damage. Just look at China's skies. And if you would look at the worsening of the air quality over Sydney.

So it is only sensible to take action to control that pollution. If as a side benefit it also elevates the issue of climate change then hey all the better.

Are you denying that the burning of fossil fuels is a pollutant?


Ah but you are avoiding the much more relevant question your own health.

Why if we have laws to take care of humans other forms of pollution such as human waste don't we have laws regarding the pollution of our skies, water ways and land by the use of fossil fuels.

Ye we do pollute and in most cases we have laws that restrict that pollution.

I don't agree that we can't have a balance we must have a balance if we want to survive as a species.

We cause it we should fix it.

Am I off the grid yet, no but I am in going down the path to make sure my footprint is as small as I can make both by the type of car I drive and house I have.


Agreed Tom1 that is why I am trying a different approach. If we don't want to clean up our mess because of the fear of climate change then why not because the pollution we are causing is messing with the basic function of our breathing.

Trying to deal with simple minds it is best to take really simple approaches.


OK to all of the above here are some excerpts from and article regarding the other problems of air pollution due to the use of fossil fuels ....

"SYDNEY'S air quality is only going to get worse, with a state government report signalling that residents will suffer from rising levels of ozone, a primary cause of respiratory diseases such as asthma.

"The report, compiled by the Department of the Environment, Climate Change and Water, argues that unless the government takes additional measures to reduce emissions, population growth will boost petrochemical smog, which could ''significantly worsen Sydney's air quality, and potentially expose more people to ozone concentrations'' above national air quality standards.

"The admission by the NSW government that ozone levels haven't improved and will worsen over the next 15 years is very bad news for people with asthma and a tacit admission that its air pollution policies are failing," said the chief executive of the Asthma Foundation NSW, Greg Smith.

''Two new power stations in the Blue Mountains and Campbelltown, both areas with a high prevalence of asthma, will only add to the problem.''

So once again for the dummies improve the air quality in Australia if for no other reason then your own health.

Does it have to get more obvious?


Exactly where are you intending to spend that money?

It would be foolish to give up on stopping climate change as well it would be foolish to ignore the problems it will and are causing. 

We will obviously have to deal with both issues.


The boats have not stopped trying, in fact the approach the Abbott government is trying is before the Supreme Court. As for the carbon tax only part of it has been removed. We still have parts Abbott promised to get rid of that are still active.

And best you look at a calendar because 10 months have passed not a few months AND then there is the question of the budget which as PM Clive Palmer has said is dead in the water. 

That might be a success story to you but not to the Australian people as shown by the latest polls showing Abbott is even more unpopular then Gillard was.



The real insult concerning Abbott's "Direct Action" nonsense is that it is the approach a socialist would take and this idea coming from a party that is suppose to be against such a concept just beggars the imagination. Best just dump this thought bubble.

I wonder what would be people's response if those concerned with climate change had taken a different approach and just argued against the pollution that is obviously caused by coal fired plants and automobile exhaust. 

While I have no doubt that pumping fumes into the air is going to cause a change in climate the point that seems to be missed by most is that this same pollution is also impacting directly on your lungs. Maybe we are not going to die quite as quickly as the Chinese but surely it is impossible to argue against the pollution that is being pumped out at present.

But there is a budget emergency haven't you heard. It means we need to give the miners and big polluters more money from the voter.

Makes sense if you are a miner or coal fired power station.

Wake me up when this government does something actually for us dirty unwashed.


"In the days since the plane was shot down, European investigators have been harassed by gun-wielding, pro-Russian rebels.

Evidence has been disturbed, belongings have been looted and now the dead are being moved." 

... as reported by ABC European correspondent. Abbott is doing a great job so far eh? 
"The rebels had come under withering criticism from officials in Kiev, Washington, Kuala Lumpur, The Hague and European capitals who claimed they had failed to show respect for the dead ? most of whom were Dutch citizens, flying from Amsterdam to Malaysia ? and failed to preserve the integrity of the crime scene." 

... from today's Washington Post. No mention of efforts by Abbott. Obviously the Abbott government has only told the LNP supporters of its successes pertaining to this event.


My gas bill has just gone up 17%. I don't think I'll see any improvement.

It was announced a month ago that gas bills in NSW were to be increased by 17% as of July 1, fact.

The reason? The shortage of gas because it is being sent to Asia plus the blocking of fracking in NSW and Victoria.

A shortage actually being encouraged by Abbott who wants to give farmers the right to block mining companies from using what has been their right for over 100 years.

Agree or disagree those are some of the reasons I won't be noticing any refund from my energy providers.

Oh it should also be noted that aluminium plants are due to close because of this price increase, or maybe they are just bluffing, I seriously don't know the answer to that point.


Abbott is a thought bubble. A bubble that depends on grand ideas with little thought of the consequences.

As for the relationship between all levels of government is without a doubt to give each level clear responsibilities and clear pathway to fund those ideas.

Right now each level has a go at the other levels for any perceived problems. So how do we fix this?

Well that is the tricky part because first off you will need consensus from all levels on an approach and you would need it from Labor, the Greens and PUP. 

The pathway to that requires a leader capable of engaging the others NOT one that just decides its time to give the states total power over health and education and expect everyone to just follow.

A leader my kingdom for a leader, Shakespeare might write if he were around.


Did you read the AFR today? The new PM Clive Palmer has told the LNP to go back to the budget drawing board because what they have presented to his government isn't good enough.


A thought bubble burst a some point leaving misery and pain for those that had faith in the bubbler.

A thought bubble that is behind by 12% according the latest Morgan poll.You better ask the new PM Clive Palmer about the performance of the LNP. He reckons they need to pull their head out of the budgetary sand and come up with a new budget otherwise he'll call for a new election.

This was front page news on the AFR not mentioned anywhere in the Murdoch press however. I guess they are trying to still live the lie that Abbott is in control of anything.




I feel that this a deliberate plan to reduce Government services by starving the State Governments of money. In particular the American model for health care. 

... hence why I prefer a centralised approach.


A financial collapse eh? Well that is interesting.
The one thing I am certain of is that the bankers are bastards and would rip you off rather then look at you. 
However, it is true that when the real estate market goes south then the country is in trouble, fair enough. Certainly we can all agree on that. Our major banks withstood the GFC, yes with a bit of support from the government and are making record profits, even more now that the FoFA will allow them to rip off little old ladies and gentlemen again, but would they collapse?
Bubbles do occur. Prices for housing have increased a fair bit recently. One day we are told yes it?s a worry then the next not really, very confusing. Keating tried to address this situation and nearly got hung for it so I suspect it is indeed a problem but I am not sure which approach the government should take if any.
I'll be interested to read what others write.
That is the most irritating point. And to fix up their messes the heavy lifting is put on the shoulders of those that least take the weight.

Or the Silent Majority?

 Of course a middle exist. Sometimes that is where I sit and some times I move a little to the right and or to the left. And when necessary I'll argue each of those positions with as much conviction as possible so that you also can join my middle.

I think it is pretty easy to determine the extreme isn't it? Just look at the Middle East.

Define right and I'll tell you if I ever sit there.

That is part of the issue isn't it, definitions.


In my opinion the best approach was always an ETS. Set a goal for admissions and let business find their own way. The more government control to more patches.

Sounds like the approach a socialist would take. I believe in as free an enterprise as possible.

You should read what I write a little more carefully. I didn't say communist I said socialist a big difference.

Carbon tax was more socialist then capitalist probably because that is the way the Greens think. Labor went along for the ride. A big mistake.

Complexity is all around us for our entire life but I would agree that it gets more complex as I get older. 

Maybe we should have educated our children better so they wouldn't take such cruel advantage of us as we get more feeble of mind.

I think at this point in time the boomers are starting to get their advice from their children's generation.


Agreed. 

I would add that I think it is more enjoyable seeing people of different ages around me. I find myself smiling more and more when I see parents with young children. I'd hate to be around grumpy old folks like myself all the time.

I am not sure about point 5 but the rest seem logical.

The only thing I might add is that all of these guidelines should be consistent across all levels of government across the entire country, Federal, state and council.

That is if we are serious about trying to regain trust in our governing processes.

I'll try again ... why is a comment by one person saying the press should be regulated some how morph into "the left" being honest about their totalitarian desires?

Since when does one person speak for an entire movement and how does regulation also morph into totalitarian desires?

Like it or not there are regulations on how the media do their job. Its all a question of degrees really.

Education yes regulation of the press, would probably depend on what you mean. 

One person controlling the media then yes make sure that doesn't happen. Hack into people's phone calls, yep make sure that doesn't happen, but day to day stuff nah, as you said educate the kids to think.Maybe just don't see how it can work smoothly but I'd be willing to try it.

If we had honest politicians we'd have an honest society and would need to have so many regulations.

Our politicians are only a reflection of what society values.

"National Seniors Australia has called it a grubby deal, accusing both the Government and PUP of treating older Australians with contempt."

It has also been noted that the deal between PUP and the LNP is not yet sealed.


I don't think their opposition has anything to do with science. They wouldn't know science if they tripped over it. Its big money that is driving this and nothing more.

The problem is we are missing an opportunity, if we were really open for business, because renewable energy is the growth industry just look at China's efforts in this area.


It is dearer at least in comparison to wind but not yet solar.

ABC seems to not want to give me the chance for rebuttal but I will try one last time ...

China the largest energy user in the world is aiming to have 20% of that energy come from renewables by 2020. Sounds like a business opportunity to me.

The current polls as of this past Monday from Morgan shows Labor at 56.5% and the LNP at 43.5%. All Labor is going to have to do is show up. Remember it is government's that lose elections.

As per asylum seekers there are over 50 million displaced persons in the world. Do you seriously think that Abbott is going to be able to stop boat arrivals?

An adult would sit down with the nations impacted by this situation and the other political parties in Australia and come up with a plan that all can show support, even if limited, for so that we can try and bring the entire country along. Because it isn't going to go away just get harder to deal with.

The problem is that is what adults would do.

Once again the ABC blocks my chance to reply. 

My business as you know is art. My investments on the other hand are far ranging one of which is renewable energy. I am very happy with my returns in this area. Look at the price of coal, its been heading south for some time.

Behind by some 12% in Morgan polls if I could I'd place a bet with you on the possibility of Abbott being PM after the next election.

The Supreme Court is going to decide on Abbott's approach to keeping the boats at bay. As far as I am concerned there isn't a party in Australia that is thinking about this problem logically and for the long term.

That it sounds simple to you says a lot about your thought processes. 50 million people looking for a home is going to have an impact on everyone including Australia. Its time adults sat down and talked this entire issue through.



Rubbish and the rest of the world knows it and is starting to act. Just look at what China is up to and the USA, finally.

I'll try yet again to put you on the path of knowledge ... China is aiming to increase its use of renewable energy by 20% by 2020. That is a fact look it up.

By 2020 it will have 20%. Do a search to find out.Find boycott all you want. The question was relating to China's use of renewables. I pointed out where they are headed.

If you want to switch the argument in another direction that is up to you. Go for it.


Again the question wasn't about YOU it was about renewable energy and where China were headed.

If for the sake of nothing but a healthy set of lungs for your children you should be for renewable energy.

We may be killing ourselves slower then the Chinese but the same pollutants that are obviously chocking the skies over their cities are here as well. In fact it is worse here because our coal fired plants are less efficient then the Chinese.

Why is china's goal to have 20% of its energy produced by renewable energy is of interest is because of the blindingly obvious point BUSINESS.

Wouldn't it be wist for Australia to have some part to play in that sort of a business venture?


Abbott believes that humans cause climate change. Is he wrong?Running from the question? 

Did Abbott or did he not say that he believed that humans caused climate change?

Tell that to Abbott even he acknowledges the link between human activity and climate change.


He just doesn't want to do anything about the problem.


You are right of course  "bipartisan" is really just a dirty word right now but it is the answer for a lot of the country's issues.

 "bipartisan" now means an agreement between PM Palmer and the LNP with everyone else left holding a can.

Sad state of affairs.Gosh that is a sad story and it must have been very hard for you to write but thank you. 

I will be aware and try the best I can to help.Clive isn't paying attention to what anyone says. As long as Abbott keeps jumping to Palmer's tune it will stay the same.

Whatever happen to the Abbott that said he would never cave into the whims of independents?

Yet another lie. Abbott has no backbone. We really need a leader.

Seems rather arrogant eh? I reckon. The country is being run  by one person and his handful of puppets. Its funny. Funny enough to make one cry.

The LNP should just put Palmer in as the PM he runs the government anyway.I must say I am uncomfortable with the concept of cryptocurrency, maybe because I am an old fart but something I can't hold in my hand doesn't seem real.

The other aspect that will keep me nervous is the potential for some whiz bang to hack into my account, yes I know that can happen now but things just seem a little safer.

What I do agree with is the fact that banks do not serve the bottom of the pyramid, in fact I don't think they serve anyone but the tip of that structure. So things will change and the sooner the better. I am just not 100% sure cryptocurrency is the way to go ... at least not yet.


Don't necessarily disagree but that plastic note has a history and the cryptocurrency doesn't.

I'll have to be convinced that I would be better off with cryptocurrency and so far I am not.



You know having a crack at Palmer just shows your level of desperation Zing.

He is shaking things up ... at least for now. Time will tell people saying one thing or another about him is really pointless.

I have no idea if he will be a plus or minus. As far as I can see we now have no price on carbon which places us against the present worldwide trend and I suspect that loss of a carbon price could hurt our businesses.


Its what the LNP don't have that is the country's problem ... a leader.

I repeat ....

He is shaking things up ... at least for now. Time will tell people saying one thing or another about him is really pointless.
When the little old conservative women in a conservative seat think that Palmer is more the macho man then the PM it is clear if nothing else that you have people's attention. And if you have that then anything is possible.

Will Palmer be considered a plus like Chipp years from now? God knows but boy he has the attention of the voter and now one hopes Abbott. We all need a functioning government and right now it doesn't look good.



You still living in the past Realist?

Take note tonight's Morgan Poll has  ALP improving its primary vote to 38.5% (up 2% from the last released Morgan Poll a fortnight ago) whilst the L-NP primary vote is 34% (down 1%).

End result Labor on 56.5 and the LNP on 43.5. You may think things are going swimmingly but the voters don't.


I understand how you feel and in some ways agree. Let's see what plays out over the coming months.

What we desperately need is a leader. LNP supporters do you have anyone that can take over ASAP?


It is hard to know what impact Palmer will have. From other articles I've read he is likely to knock Abbott's budget by around $38 billion.

Palmer gets media attention. I don't rate him a fool but I also have no idea what tricks he will pull out of his sleeve. Might we see Palmer knighted? Or made the LNP leader?

Just tighten your seat belts it is going to be an interesting few months if not years.

Shorten is not Abbott's problem. For that matter neither is Palmer.

Abbott's problem looks back at him every morning in the mirror.

Oppositions rarely win government its governments that lose it.

Journalist what would you do without them eh?

As for Thorpe I don't see why his sexuality is an item considered worthy of a special interview. He is a nice guy but he is out of sports and really does anyone in Australia now care what your sexuality is? I thought we were past that and now moving on to the much more important question of when will the nation just allow them to lead a totally normal life and get married.

From (Reuters) two days ago ...  - German hard coal consumption for power generation was down by 11 percent year-on-year in the first quarter of 2014 as the use of coal in electricity production gave way to higher renewable power production, coal importers lobby VDKI said on Friday.

Healthy steel industry demand, however, helped to boost overall imports.

"The increasing feed-in of power from renewable energy, namely from photovoltaics, could have a further dampening effect on coal demand especially in the summer months," VDKI said in a statement.

Production of power from hard coal-fired generation plants was down 17 percent in January-March at 30 terawatt hours (TWh), compared with a year earlier, it said.

Why don't we try and find out what is actually happening before we mouth off?


Wrong Marko, you should read up on the topic. There was a good article in today's AFR regarding how miners will benefit from solar power because of advancements in the use of lithium in batteries.

Poop, states control electricity prices. They were told to improve their infrastructure because the state government wanted to flog them off.I live in a rather conservative area in NSW. While having a coffee at one of the plentiful coffee houses in this area I over heard a group of four elderly proper ladies discussing the performance of the government this past week.

What these upright women agreed upon was that Abbott had been emasculated by Palmer. It was fortunate that I didn't have any coffee in my mouth or I would have spewed it out.

We are talking about women in their 60's or early 70's. If that comment had come out of an obvious Labor supporter it would have only been a minor surprise but these look everything like conservative ladies. Oh and they didn't have many nice things to say about Labor either.

But think about this conservative ladies talking about the PM a man's man sort of guy having his masculinity question because he is unable to deal with a person that most would agree, I think, is anything but one's picture of a macho man.

Abbott's base is crumbling and fast. If he doesn't get the carbon tax issue dealt with  this week he is a goner.


They say when the voters look to be taking up baseball bats a party should worry.

If that is the case how much worse can it be when little old ladies question your manhood?

Not only Abbott but the country should be worried.


This Joh1 is what it means according to the Morgan poll ... 

ALP improved to 38.5% (up 2% from the last released Morgan Poll a fortnight ago) whilst the L-NP primary vote is 34% (down 1%). Meaning that if an election were held today Labor would gain 56.5 and the LNP 43.5.

When little old ladies are questioning a PM's manhood he is in deep trouble.



Where in my comment did I compare Americans to Australians?

You can wiggle as much as you want but Abbott is in deep poo and it is all of his own making.

Whether or not he can come back is anyone's guess.

Remember when Abbott said he wouldn't deal with independents? 

Abbott has trashed his support base. I cannot see anyway back for him and soon his incompetency will cost the country. He must be removed for the good of Australia.


I think the point is that businesses are not going to pass on the savings. Palmer should know how business deals with such things.

Really the easy answer is just to knock the Carbon tax rate down to zero. Leave the structure in place but just don't have a cost until the rest of the world starts to act.

Why make this so hard? Abbott has supposedly agreed to an ETS based on zero so lets just settle this now and move on.


Too right toot. Isn't it strange while the world is struggling to shake off the second worst financial downturn in the last what 100 years we are even talking about this?

Which segment of society caused the problem? Which side of society has to se their entitlements ended? And if us dirty un-wash complain well we are just causing class warfare, what utter nonsense.

That a government any government can put the heavy lifting onto those least able to do it is criminal.

Both side caused it? 

You mean the poor made the banks in America come up with dicey investment packages that they sold all across the world and its the fault of the poor?

You have no knowledge of what went down during the GFC to have made that claim.And where was George Bush for 8 years? Off to war was he?You mean to tell me that Australia's economy stand totally on its own and if the rest of the world goes down the economic toilet it doesn't impact on us?

Were you alive during the GFC? Do a search on the issue your comment is a nonsense.MY GOD someone that actually knows and understands history? I am impressed GJA and I am not trying to be patronising.

In broad terms you've pretty much summed things up. The question is where to from here? I don't see a leader from either side in Australia that has a real grasp of the situation and what is required.

Thanks for your comment you have given me faith that all is not lost.


"is the world meritocratic or not" ... do we really even need to ask that question? 

If we want a society that is based on merit and nothing more then that would require each and every one of us having the same starting point. Not going to happen is it? 

Class warfare is part of living I think it always has been. We had a fairly balanced society here in Australia, at least compared to the US, but we are in danger of losing that and heading the way of my homeland. 

It would seem obvious that the US approach doesn't lead to equality of opportunity.  Like it or not socialism with all its draw backs is a better approach.




No the problem is clearly that Abbott lied to get into office and now we have a dysfunctional government that is going no where.

The only sane option is to either have the LNP replace Abbott or to go to another election.

Abbott cannot be trusted. That is why he wasn't PM in 2010 and why he should not be PM now.

YEAH, someone from the right that finally understands.At what point in time are you going to realise that the LNP ARE the government. 

It is their decisions that we are dealing with now. If the only answer you have is to point into the past then get out of the way. 

Call another election and lets put someone in office that will take responsibility for their actions not continually and boringly point the finger into the past.This megalomaniac pulled Abbott's political pants down and gave him a whipping,  I laughed till I cried.

And I suspect there will beg more of that to come. Abbott is look every day a greater disaster. 

I thought you had turned socialist Joe? What happened?Abbott has made this rod of his and the nations back. The only way through is to dump Abbott. Either the faceless LNP men do it or they go to the public. Abbott is not fit to be PM.


I agree. If Abbott wants to work with him then show him some respect. I might not agree with much of what Palmer says or wants but the guy has got Abbott in a tizzy.

Also when you look at the rest of the opposition he is front and centre while they seem to be spinning their wheels.

Very interesting.


Who is flirting with him? I'm just stating the facts. Of all the idiots from either side we are now in a situation where Palmer looks like the best option.

That the conservatives are going to try and take whatever means they can to knobble him is the way conservatives act. Abbott has a long history of trying to find ways of destroying his enemies.


Which politician is pulling the strings of government? One with only one seat in the House and three in the Senate.

While no other leader is able to tie their shoelaces. I don't like what Palmer stands for my comment was directed at this ability to run the government with so few elected members.

You want Palmer sidelined? No problem, dump Abbott.

The Prime Minister's comments in praise of Japanese soldiers during World War II  has to be the most offensive thing he has done in a long time.

Is he totally unaware of the utter brutality of the Japanese? If any of you out there know an Australian soldier that fought in WWII against the Japanese ask them. 

I've heard some horrific stories about the Japanese. And the Chinese and Koreans have even worse stories to tell. There is a very good reason why those two counties hate Japan and for our PM to praise their soldiers is a total insult. He should hide his head in shame.

Which historians are you talking about?

Ask China or Korea what they though of the Japanese. Or ask a soldier that fought against them. They were brutal and committed war crimes by the thousands.

Find out about the Nanking Massacre, also known as the Rape of Nanking This was an episode of mass murder and mass rape committed by Japanese troops against the people of Nanking. 

It is estimated they killed upwards of 6 million people. 

You should feel ashamed of trying to defend them.


We are talking about WWII. I was responding to a comment made trying to defend the Japanese during WWII. Read your history books and find out what they were like then.

During that war they were brutal and vicious pass any sense of right.

I am sure some Nazi's fought bravely that doesn't make what they stood for and what they fought for was right.



And you b end over backwards trying to defend him.

I dare you to read some of the posts from people with some actual knowledge regarding Japan and its war crimes.

There was no need for Abbott to praise these people. 


Try reading some of the other comments from people with relatives that died at the hands of the Japanese.

Read the history books if that fails and discover what the Japanese soldiers did in China and Korea.

Read the stories about the events mentioned and then tell how much you respect them.

Spot on Joe.Why mention the war?

Why because I suspect that was part of the deal with Japan's trade agreement.

Abe is trying to get his country to be more aggressive in building up its war machine to do battle against China. He can now point to comments like Abbott's for international support for that build up.

We get cheaper cars, no car industry and Japan gets pats on the back for their WWII bravery. Is that really smart?
When did Rudd or Gillard have our navy intercept ships outside Australia waters and force those on board to either stop their voyage and remain on that ship OR force them onto our navy ships?

If you don't see the difference you are not really looking.

Oh and by the way the courts did block Labor's attempt to have asylum seekers assessed in Malaysia.

The courts action is not political, has not been organised by Labor, and is directly related to Morrison's bloody minded attempt to stop boats at any cost.

Let the courts decide seeing that we can't get the LNP to act like adults. 

I think the best way to address the points you made is to point you in the direction of the ABC article relating to this issue....

"It looks for all the world like piracy," Mr Burnside said. 

"If they went onto the Australian vessel because they had asked for help and they were offered help, then they seem to have been taken under false pretences because the Government not only publicly denied their existence it also seemed distinctly uninclined to offer them any help."

And though I don't like Labor's present position on asylum seekers they never did anything like that.


Prabowo's dark human rights record seems like he would fit right into the way Abbott and Morrison are running things here.

As for Jokowi he seems to lack experience so there will be some time before he gets a grip on things, if indeed he ever gets the chance. Indonesia is such a large complex society it will be very demanding to govern.

Good luck to him.
Sorry but which party is in power again?

And which party when they were in opposition banged on and on about boats arrivals and now when they have power refuse to say anything about their actions? Some might point to that hypocrisy before having a go at someone else.

The question then becomes has Alan got it wrong? Should he have told us that this is really a states issue and not a federal one?

Seems to me that Alan dropped the ball on this issue and didn't provide enough facts.

Gee I am getting a bit old wasn't there a government around for about 12 years before Gillard and Rudd? 

What was the PM's name again?

Didn't they start a lot of middle class welfare entitlements?

Why didn't he do anything about this situation?  Too busy giving handouts to win office maybe?

There is an obvious problem that has been around for awhile. Now is the time to fix it before the baby boomers flood the market.


 

How is that even possible after only two years? Heck Abbott did that in a month Newman is just learning to be a conservative.

I think their knack is to be bloody minded. To say one thing before they get into office and do something else.

At the present time in Australia being a conservative seems to mean trashing democracy to suit their own vision of the world.

 


How many promises did Rudd break? None.

How many did Gillard break? One.

How many has Abbott broken? I'll let you answer that question.


Hey mate I'm as stupid today as I was when I was 21. I just do stupid things a little slower nowadays.


The US doesn't elect people to the office of Presidency because they know a lot about foreign policy. Maybe they should but they don't.

Like most voters they will look at a number of things but largely how will they impact on their wallet. 

Senator Rubio will also need a lot of money and if he has to fight the Tea Party as well as the Democrats it will be hard.

BUT wait guys we've got years to go before this is even a question aren't you a little early to be saying even who will be in the chase?Interesting comments.

Too early to talk about it here in Australia. Its bad enough that in the US there seems to be an election of some sort going on at too regular a basis for my liking especially the local and these never ending preludes to for the President.

Glad you have a good time there though but it seems to have gotten nuttier especially where guns are concerned.


And here I was thinking that people came here just to back a footy team. They are seeking a better life you say? Wow why would they?

During their time in opposition the LNP were all for talking about and analysing every boat load of people coming to this country. Now they have hid under a cone of silence. 

The question that pops into my mind is were Abbott and CO. in league with the people smugglers? They now say that knowledge of what actions the government takes only helps them. The very obvious conclusion is that Abbott and the LNP were doing all they could to undermine the Labor governments actions to curb the problem.

Does the hypocrisy of the LNP know no bounds? 


Sounds like a double negative sort of question.

IF the question is are people coming here for a better life then my answer would be yes it is better to live free then to fear torture, that is so obvious I wonder why anyone would doubt it.

If you question is are they coming just so they can earn enough money to buy a fancy house and live in luxury well I doubt it but never having spoken with everyone of them I can't say for sure but I'm willing to listen to them first before I make up my mind.

My question for you that you are avoiding  is if it is now wrong to comment on attempts by people to seek asylum why did Morrison and Abbott bang on about it when they were in opposition? Were they in collusion with people smugglers? Now that is a question I'd like dealt with in a Royal Commission.



I suspect they know the fate of their children a whole lot better then you or Abbott if they don't gain refugee status.

This sort of blinkered view of the situation isn't going to win anyone over. Those whose views are set in stone will just nod their heads the others will wonder how you can be so simplistic.

We have not had a rational debate on this issue we have had sound bites. Without any real idea what we are talking about we make grandiose claims about stopping the boats or opening the gates to one and all.

50 million people are displaced. I think it is fair to say those 50 million will some day become an even bigger source of anguish for the world if all that happens is countries like Australia saying we will take 1300. 

If for no other reason then those people becoming a future world problem we need not only here but around the world an intelligent debate on this issue. So why not start here?

Hence why I am trying to find a way around the rusted ons so us that are in the middle can find a rational way of dealing with what is an obvious worldwide problem.

And the pink batts issue. How much do we spend on our boarder protection and incarceration camps does anyone know?

Surely there is a better way. Can we please start acting like adults and deal with this problem with a long term sensible approach?


"operation sovereign borders", is that what Morrison called it when he went to the media every time a boat arrived when he was in opposition?

\Now for some reason we can't learn a thing because it would give information to the people smugglers. Well why is that only now a problem? 

Was Morrison in league with people smugglers when he was in opposition? Didn't he care at that time that he was giving aid to their cause?

What a bunch of hypocrites. 


Have you had to live in one of these camps? WWII was over in what 5 years? Some of these people have spent at least that much time and for no other reason then they were seeking asylum.


Millions have sought safety across Europe and the USA. Taking 1300 hardly seem like much heavy lifting.

You see Evil... Abbott never said he wouldn't tell the public what it is doing to stop the boats that lack of information is rather important. 

Transparency is a key element in a democracy its what keeps our governments from acting like dictatorships. There are also legal issues regarding Abbott's approach that need to be answered before his approach will be widely excepted.

Stop the Boats might sound good on the campaign trail but reality smacks such populist ideas and that is how it should  be as well. 



A typical response from you Evan. Unable to argue the point you bring into the discussion totally unrelated issues.

We are not at war with these people. They are seeking asylum. The seeking of asylum is a recognised right which Australia signed up to.

If Abbott wants adult discussion on this issue then they best start by treating us like adults.


Over the top statement and I don't like Abbott. Such an approach doesn't help get us any closer to a rational approach to this issue.

At present no party to my mind has set out a logical human manner of dealing with this issue. What is really lacking are facts followed by an adult debate on what can be done, what impact it will have on the number seeking asylum here and (you may not like this) how much it will cost.

The media might help by giving us a clearer idea what issues are real and which ones are manufactured ... without bias if possible.

From there lets get the pollies in front of a TV where they are forced to answer the questions that rare raised.

With more information I would like to think we could have a more unified approach.


Nor is there a unified approach as far as the other parties are concerned. The different sides are not talking to each other that to me is a major problem which is causing ridiculous statements being made.

No country needs such divisiveness.

Troll. You know your comment will only fuel a heated pointless debate instead of trying to engage and face the realities of the world's situation.

With some what 5 million displaced people the world has a problem.

Here in Australia we have the choice between the cone of silence approach of Abbott. The We solved the problem by sending asylum seekers off shore and won't let them come here Labor approach, and the let them all in Green idea.

All of which do not solve anything. The major political parties are tying themselves in knots to avoid acting like adults.

First off we need to know how many asylum seekers are actually sitting in places like Indonesia and the like wanting to come to this country.

Second, lets have a clearer idea of what circumstance are for these people.

Third, how exactly are other countries dealing with the issue. Is there any country with a humane approach that is actually working?

Fourth, what exactly would be our goal as a nation?

Fifth, how much are we really willing to spend. What really is the most cost effective way of dealing with these desperate people.

Instead of childish comments like 'sleepy...' we should be open to new ideas that show compassion and yet are manageable. Ranting and cone's of silence won't get us anywhere but a dark place and I am fed up with such childish behaviour.

I was wondering when ABC would have an article again on this issue, thanks.

At the end of the day it should be up to each and everyone of us to decide when we die. Not the government and surely not any religion. 

The only real issue is how this can be cared out in  a sensible caring manner. 

In an ideal world there should be a support centre which takes people through steps where the arrangement of their deaths can be conducted after a full and compassionate manner. Where people realise what they are doing and why. Be it when they are 21 or 91. We should decide when we die it is as basic a human right as one can have.


How do you know what happens to people? Do they recover? Or do they go through their entire lives in torment? You like to think that they just tip toe into a better life after a bout of depression do you?

The truth is anything but. As one that has gone into deep black holes year after year I'd say I'd have been happy to have just ended it years ago. It really gets up my nose with the likes of you saying she'll be right mate. It isn't it hasn't been and I long for the day when I can just do it and do it on my terms with dignity.







Agreed. Give the guys a chance. That they have not had a life in the political arena is fine with me. Being patronising is the rule of thumb for the Abbott/Murdoch crowd.

I thought you'd love this news item Ben. Here is a conservative that has really thought through the issues and has the guts to not only think but take a swipe at your beloved leader.

"Lord Deben, a former head of the Conservative Party who served under Margaret Thatcher and John Major, is now the head of the UK Committee on Climate Change." 

He called Abbott's trashing of the carbon plan as reckless. Imagine that.No of course not but Abbott is the one holding the staff of power and its his antics that matter at the moment. 

The ALP are only bit players ... at least until the next election.Both sides have extremist that are keeping these hostilities alive. It is as simple and as hopeless as that.As long as extremists from both sides hold sway nothing will be achieved.

The only hope, and there isn't much of that, is that those of the middle knock the extremists on their knuckle heads and find a way forward. And good luck to them.



Should be interesting to see where this all leads. 

My preference would be closer ties with Japan. Mainly because it has the necessary element that democratic governments require that of transparency in their decision making processes. 

As regards Australia and more submarines, well only if we can first show we can afford them AND the level of social support we had before Abbott's election. 

Australia buying subs isn't going to protect us from squat. The dismantling of our social safety net will cause much more harm to the society's security.

Very few but I didn't say they were perfect just a better option then China. How many asylum seekers head for China?

Like you I fear Australia is entering a very dark place.

Emperor Abbott and his merry band of henchmen are not happy. People have questioned his authority.  Don?t they know that they have gained their power directly from the gods Murdoch and Rinehart? 

Lowlife supporters of Labor and the Greens have had the audacity to go to the Supreme Court to block his sending of asylum seekers back to those they are trying to escape from, how dare they..

OK boys and girls how much obvious does it? Abbott is totally the wrong person to be PM. Either the LNP?s version of the faceless men dumps him or we have another election.  

If not this government will become a sea of pure hate and chaos. Like when Nixon entered his second term in office, there will be never ending battles between Abbott?s sense of entitlement to bludgeon its opponents and his opponents willingness to disappear. Compromises that are required to make it all work will become harder and harder to come by.  

What a mess.
When people use the words "would have" you know they are struggling. 

You've seen the movie "Sliding Doors" until a party or person is put in a situation and actually acts you have no idea what they "would" do.

We do know that both parties assess asylum seekers off shore that is all we KNOW.

When the Greens wake up to the fact that because of their bloody mindedness we have Abbott as PM. And that they have never come up with a realistic  approach to stopping people getting into boats and drowning. They might then realise why some of us see them as silly little kids playing with adults.

Don't agree. We can't bend over to China in fear of them being offended.

What is needed is consistency in what we say so there are few misunderstandings. I would say we don't go around telling every country they are our very best friends. Sounds rather childish and nothing that an adult would respect. 

We also don't ell the US President not to worry about China and then go and make a pact with Japan for subs which are directly connected to the a desire to encircle China.

A lot more thought before opening his mouth would be a good idea ... that is if he wants to be viewed as an adult.




Time moves on just ask the Europeans. At this point in time I'd rather look to be in bed with the Japanese then the Chinese and the reasons should be obvious.

It is not just Japan that is having trouble with China but almost all their neighbours.

When China develops a transparency in governance then they might be trusted but not until then.


Interesting insight, thanks. But the PM said there wasn't anyone here to fight so why were there these wars?


Although after 1901, it would be accurate to say that the indigenous people were fighting an illegal war against the Australian nation.

You must be kidding. You reckon the aboriginals agreed to this arrangement?unbelievable that anyone would say such a thing.Rubbish, the ABC for some reason I am yet to understand still let your comments appear.

Maybe the middle ground is lot when the government hands over asylum seekers to the government that they were running away from?

"Forty-one asylum seekers returned to Sri Lanka by Australian authorities are being handed over to criminal investigators in the port city of Galle."

What sort of government does that? 


I agree that Murdoch has raised his child star, Abbott, as a negative mongrel pollie. Murdoch is spreading this hard rights hate and destroy campaign across the USA as well. 

To try and be balanced ABC skits that portray people of the right as no better then mounting dogs doesn't help. But ABC doing it is one thing. A few protestors wearing I hate Abbott T-shirts is not the same as the leader of a party caring his message of hate as far as Abbott did. I am especially referring to the time where Abbott stood in front of a burn the witch sign when protesting the then PM Ms Gillard.

Having said that I don't think it is just this period of time where politicians and their minders have used the language of hate as a tool to wipe out the opposition, it has happened throughout US  political history as well. 

Maybe the main difference is that more people hear the messages of hate now then in the past.

Abbott was the most vitriolic politician I have heard since  Nixon and he looks to be reaping what he sowed.

1. Did you see Shorten standing in front of I hate Abbott signs?

2. "Abbott talks calmly in front of a camera. People raise signs behind him without his knowing." What is he blind?

The demonstrations that have lately been held, across the entire country, have been except for the last one in Melbourne, void of political connections. They are being organised on the internet by people across all ranges of political persuasion against Abbott.

You ought to go to one before you pass judgement.



Yep sure have and where both Keating and Latham would go over the top they were no where near the lying deceitful person that Nixon and Abbott were and are.

The middle ground I think is always the best place to be but like you say it is not easy to distinguish where that is.

I guess the only manner to do that is look at what the extremes of both sides are saying and assume that both hold a candle of a little truth then try and moderate both.

Abbott has as reported 37 political spin doctors on the government's pay roll, are you one of them. 

So when you talk about what someone as politically obscure as Latham it is hard to take you serious.Maybe because the Murdoch press helped Abbott spread his lies better then Labor was able to point to their accomplishments? Just a thought.

But now that we know that Abbott is not fit to be PM where do we go from here? Hopefully to another election though I doubt that Abbott will chance such an effort. He'll want to hold on to the seat of power as long as he can.

More then a match? 30% of the press that reaches 70% of the population. Are you seriously suggesting that Murdoch does not have a political agenda that he pushes not only here but across the world?

The Murdoch media empire is for one reason only, to push his political views. The ABC is there for everyone and is only there for us. Every PM that I have heard over the past 30 odd years I've been here has complained about ABC bias. So lets not hear the whining for LNP supporters because ABC takes this government to task.

The last poll taken by Morgan had him behind by some 15%. With those figures I suspect there are a fair few people that voted for him that regret their vote.

The man proves himself a fool almost every week. The latest two foot in mouth episodes is his claim that Australia was unsettled before the British arrive.

AND the handing over for arrest of 41 asylum seekers to the Sri Lanka government.In Melbourne last night Tony Abbott said Australia had been "unsettled" before the arrival of the First Fleet. ... That, to me, is the best example of a boganville comment I've heard from a PM. 

I can only imagine how the country would react in the US if a President there ever utter such a nonsense.


Good article, thanks.

I guess at the end of the day the situation is that the Abbott government is against transparency. The less we know the more that their mates can get away with.

It is the end of entitlements alright our entitlement to know what is happening around us.


It certainly appears to be the case and yet people buy into that nonsense. The sooner we have a DD the better.

"No Contracting State shall expel or return ("refouler") a refugee in any manner whatsoever ... " that's nice but somebody has to both know about what has actually been done and then take action.

The undemocratic cone of silence that is over the head of Morrison seems to go unchallenged in any way that actually  challenge him. So is the Defence Legal Services about to take up that challenge? If not them then who?




I obviously want a democratic government that is transparent in the actions it takes in my name and so should you.


Why don't you acknowledge the REAL problem we are just not told. Transparency is part of a democracy. It is as simple as that.

Good but do you understand what happens when a government acts without being held accountable for their actions?




No they haven't you just aren't being told what is going on. The last time I looked we lived in a democracy. A key element of democracy is transparency. Trample on that and you undermine the people's trust.

Well seeing that the last Morgan poll had the LNP down by almost 15% I don't think that is totally accurate.
How would you know?

What is it that you have against the need for governments to act in a transparent manner? Don't you see the ricks involved if they are allowed to get away with such actions?

Claiming asylum is not illegal no matter how or where you do it.

You have no idea what the government is or is not doing THAT is the point the lack of transparency.

You fail to see the very basic problem with Morrisons approach, the issue of accountability.

Accountability lie at the very heart of democracy. With out it you have the seeds of corruption. If you don't know what actions your government is taking how can you possibly know if they are or are not criminal. This is why dictators control the press. They don't want the people to find out what they are doing.

Now you maybe happy with corruption but I am not. And if that makes me a hated leftie then I am proud to be there.

"Australia is undergoing a crisis of its political system" ... well Kelly got that one right.

The only time I've lived in a more politically explosive time was during the Nixon time in office.

The contempt shown by Abbott of voters is nearing a tipping point. That point in time where people will revolt at every action he takes whether sensible or not. This happened during Nixon's second term in office. Abbott seems to be totally unaware of the chaos he is causing and where it will lead. It is time that the faceless men or women of the Liberal party haul him off and put in another person. Abbott is a threat to the very foundations of this country's democracy.


A supposed lawyer that backs the most unlawful federal government I have seen since Nixon, figures.




Conservative governments in Tasmania, Victoria and Queensland have made it harder to protest. They know what is coming.


Have you checked the behaviour of the CBA lately? Is there going to be a royal commission into the banking industries  theft of millions of dollars of pensioners?

Yes there is corruption in the unions and yes in my opinion the ALP should put distance between what is right for them and right for the country. However, that does not mean that the actions of the LNP are correct.Agreed hence my comment. While Nixon did do some good things, so did LBJ, they both had blind spots regarding their decision on what was good for the country and what was good for their political careers. Abbott has done both of these guys in spades with his blindness.

Yep lets cut to the chase and just put the CEO of the CBA in jail for the rest of his life.

That bank has ruined the lives of thousands of people and now wants to hold its own enquiry into the issue.

What kind of government when it knows that the banks are bleeding the elderly dry wants to make it easier for the banks?

Harris was a crap artist but so what. Picasso was a great artist and he was a jerk as well. That doesn't distract from his work. 

Harris will not give a hoot whether or not you take down his paintings. And this entire thing about people needing or obligated  to taker them down is dumb.

They are inanimate objects, nothing more or less. If they match you curtains and you like them fine. If you think his work is crap and only have it because you think it would go up in value well I suspect you've done your money.

Do we tear down bridges if they are built by idiots? Do we get out of our car and walk because the CEO was a jerk?

No of course not. A bunch of sanctimonious garbage to start calling for an object to removed because of what the artist did.

I found his boring as mud. 

As for his punishment I think the remainder of his years will not be very pleasant and that outcome was deserved.You know that for a fact? Are you in the art selling racket?

I wouldn't buy his work in a blue fit but then I never liked it. The work suffered from the worst of all traits ... it was boring.



"watching in dressing gowns from the stands" ... you are becoming quite poetic Alan, I like it.

I've read the same thing especially BIS's slant on things. Doesn't look good does it?

In reality what did we expect? Though the LNP have seemed to ignore it the world, including us, are going through the worst downturn since the Great Depression. The world isn't going to get out of that mess easily or over just a few years.

Why should the US care about Australia? They have their own problems, big ones and would one really expect them to arrange things to help Australia? Where would that land them.

No its time to be adults and recognise that it could well be another decade before the world's ship is well and truly righted.

As you kind of allude to there will be bumpy roads ahead.

Guess that depends on your definition of righted. The Great Depression caused major social upheaval across  the world. One should expect the same from our current economic situation.
Yep much better to go down the European path and throw tens of thousands of people onto unemployment. Right good idea. 

The LNP never admitted there was a worldwide recession. It is because of the manner in which Labor acting that we didn't experience what much of the rest of the world went through. But you will never understand that point. For you money in the bank is more important then people with jobs.

Where did I say that?

What I did say was that the LNP have been in deep denial about the impact of the GFC. Do LNP supporters ever tell the truth?


Yes I have heard that Sydney is booming building wise and that is important. I think the point that is missing is that the BIS was referring to the world's situation which of course will down the line impact on Australia.

Whether the world's economic house of cards is going to tumble is quite possible but we live in the land of milk and honey ... right now.


The only people in the world that think Labor mishandled dealing with the GFC is LNP supporters. 

Hot in my opinion but we don't have a 'sliding door' world do we? We can't really tell what will happen just make as good a guess as we can and go with that.

The important thing would be to be willing to admit a mistake if we see things really go pear shape. So far Australia is still in a good place, at least as good as any.

Rubbish. More, much more, depends on what the government does or doesn't do. Why they gave the RBA another $9 billion to sit on is beyond a joke.

A recession, if it comes (remember I had warned of that possibility with Abbott's election), will be the direct consequence of the Abbott government. Australia is still the best place to be during this worldwide situation.


Where have you been? Labor is gone. Abbott is the PM. He has been in power 9 months. Is there any point at which the LNP is going to understand they are the government?

The economy right now is in great shape. Anything that happens from now on is Abbott's fault and well maybe the rest of the world might make things a bit uncomfortable.


FYI ...

June 18 - A landmark study by an international group of scientists has concluded that planet Earth is on the brink of a mass extinction event comparable in scale to the one that wiped out the dinosaurs 65 million years ago. The researchers found that extinction rates are currently 1000 times higher than normal due to deforestation, global climate change, and the depletion of ocean fisheries. Ben Gruber reports.

Think.

Finally someone with more then just a little knowledge thanks Ras...Way too late John. The repealing of the carbon tax is all about politics not about what the tax accomplished.

It is ironic that while Rudd was around 5 years ahead of the times Abbott looks like he is behind the world opinion.

The two points you make that really hit the spot for me are the Abbott government's ability to sell a perception a problem exists, where it doesn't, and that youth unemployment will drop when total unemployment drops.

If one looks at the polls it would seem that the general population has clued onto Abbott. If he were smart he would be trying to change that perception, but the lying regarding budget emergencies and youth needing to stop being bludgers is  so solidly in his and Hockey's DNA that he will carry onto the next election. Hopefully the people won't fall for his nonsense again.


Agreed, that is where we are caught between the field of dreams (and thought bubbles) and the reality of governing.

The LNP are now in government. If the ALP had come up with the same proposals as Abbott I would be against them.

Well for one thing they didn't punish them for not finding a job by cutting off their entitlements for 6 months.

And how are you to determine those doing the right and the wrong when there aren't jobs for either? That is the point.

Until the general unemployment rate goes down youth unemployment will not drop. 

To put it simply no jobs no work.


And you seemed to miss my point. If there are no jobs for young people why label one a bludger?"mismatch between the location of jobs and the people looking for work" OK so then you punish the youth because they live in the wrong place? Please ... surely you would know its not as simple as packing up and moving to where you think there may be a job.


With what money? With what family support? You provide simplistic answers for a complex problem.

One thing this country desperately lacks are apprenticeships to skill up people for the available jobs.


Isn't it good that Bush and Howard were able to wave their banner and say the 'Mission Was Accomplished' before it all went to obvious state of chaos? 

Instead of having a Commission into pink batts, and Gillard why don't we have one where it is really needed how and why we got into a war in Iraq.

Then what we can have are war trial putting all those that supported that war in the dock. It will take generations for this mess to sort itself out.

Thanks George and his lap dog Johnny. 
While I agree that Americans need to have a real look at what they did and why I don't think that would exclude Australia from doing the same. Especially if it puts the crims that supported this war behind bars. Maybe then Australian leaders would think twice about following the USA into its future misadventures. 

We either have and abide by a code of conduct or we don't.

Asking our leaders to explain themselves is what happens in a democracy.

Do we have to follow the USA into every war it wants to start? If they wanted to dispose say Abbott would that be OK? It isn't up to the USA or Australia to decide who rules and who doesn't.

Where are the WMD?

That there is presently a civil war going on in Iraq is a good sign of how well the democracy idea worked out.

True we are just now getting over the battles between different Christian religions. Who knows how long it will take before Islam sorts itself out.


Islam will have to fight its way through the rise of the Asian cultures first.

This is very embarrassing but hey your kids risk brain damage playing your brand of footy and you call the real footy soccer as well so don't throw too many rocks.

I have not seen a NFL game in years. I used to love it but it became too specialised for my liking.

When I see the Rugby Union and League go at it I think it is more brutal then US footy and it moves a lot quicker, at least League does.

OMG, you're correct. That woman is a nutter. I just did a search on her and I am ashamed to say she is American. 

And conservatives wonder why we want to deport them to the South Pole or somewhere very far from civilisation.

I'm going to have bad dreams because of you Ben. This was information I didn't really want to know.


I used to love listening to Buckley some 40 years ago, but he must be dead by now surely.

One knows one is getting old when those you use to think of as young have died.

I might not have agreed with Buckley but I admired his intellect.

OK the Great Pacific Garbage Patch it is. I'll let you make the arrangements.

"Predicting the unpredictable is always a fool's errand" ... keep those words in mind.

I have no idea in part because the makeup of the House and Senate would probably be totally different.

I am 100% sure however that vested interest would not be eliminated.


You aren't really understanding the point of this article.

Greens with 10, Palmer with 3 maybe 4 all maybe's, some of the other conservative members not really 100% behind Abbott. I think he will have his hands full.

This Senate would test any leader. Personally I don't think Abbott is up to it but time will tell.

Agreed. Now all we need is a Labor party able to form a coherent government.

You don't have answers? Wow that is a first. Are we to look at the ethics of everyone before we say buy their home, or product, or see their play etc?

A work of art is just that nothing more or less. If the work moves you then keep it if you only bought it to please the Mrs or to match your curtains then maybe its best to put it in the trash.

It really isn't that big a deal.I never like his art so I wouldn't hang it to save my life but as for others ... well if the work moves you, if it speaks to some part of you that is important then why not.

You wouldn't be saying you agree with the sort of person he is just that a work of art has an important place in your life. However if you just bought it to either match your curtains or because you hope to sell it at some point to make a profit the just burn the damn thing and be done with it.


As with most things it depends on where you are sitting. Personally I gag when I see his work. Not because of who he is or what he has done but because it is boring.

But some people like to be bored so for them hang it and don't worry about who painted it. At the end of the day it doesn't really matter.

"It's time we had a frank - and frightening - discussion about the catastrophe we're heading for and the full suite of options available to turn the situation around."

The point is we are not going to have that discussion for at least another two years. Adults would look at the issue of a potential catastrophe and take some action. We are now in a situation thanks to Palmer, Abbott, and the Greens where nothing is going to even be contemplated.

Thanks for nothing.

Adults lead, children follow. Easy question are Australians adults or children?

"The Abbott Government's attacks on Australia's environment, and their effects on our natural heritage and future prosperity" ... well isn't that rich. The party that put Abbott in power through its bloody minded refusal to pass Rudd's ETS is up in arms over what the man is doing.

Might I say its a bit late for that? If the Greens were not so precious we'd have an ETS and we wouldn't have Abbott as PM.

As for the harm Abbott is doing to the environment well what did you expect? Its the end of entitlement. We are no longer entitled to have a healthy environment did the punters really expect anything but this full on assault?


When will you wake up, Australia is not only not broke but it is no where near that situation.

You keep on saying it hoping that it will become a fact but a lie is lie no matter how many times you say it.

The Greens refused to vote for Labor's ETS.

If they had we would not have had Abbott as PM and we would have had a plan in place to deal with emissions. 

Rudd put all his energy into doing something about climate change and when he failed not only on the world's scene but in Australia he fell into a deep hole and Gillard took over thereby sowing the seeds for the election of the Abbott government.

Events happen for a reason.




Did they or did they not block Rudd's ETS? 

Did Abbott or did he not gain power by blocking that ETS negotiated with Turnbull? 

Do we or do we not have anything now in place to deal with the emission of carbon?

You either were not awake during the events of 2009 or are rewriting history.

"Plenty of other countries are doing nothing" ... so? 

When I used such an excuse when I was young to my mother she would whack me on the back of the head and say so what? Are you a leader or a follower.First off how do you propose to reduce the population?

Second once you've achieve that and you still use fossil fuels you still have the problem. All you've done is slow down its impact.

The obvious step is to use renewable energy technology to get us off fossil fuels. Other countries are doing it and so can we.

I agree, however, I was wondering how the public would react to the past few weeks of politicking. Well the Morgan poll has just come out ...  ALP (57.5%) increases lead over L-NP (42.5%).

I cannot see anyway back for this mob they are as in tune with the public as a rock is with a window.Ross Grittins (sp?) wrote an article on this topic yesterday do a search and see what he has to say.

In short it goes to how you do it and why. In every country I know of the post is run by the government for obvious reasons, it is a basic service.

Easily fixed just cut Fahour's pay packet down to where it should be, around half a million and we're right.

Australia Post should not be making a profit it is a service. I no more expect them to bring in extra money then I would the armed forces.

How many banks are owned by the government? If they were then they shouldn't but they aren't so they should. 

We should but charge who?


If one was to apply that logic for the Post Office why not for every other government service?

Again cut Fahour's pay to a level similar to the one the position gets in  the USA, around $500,000. One could buy a whole lot of technology with the savings.


"Todd Carney to urinate on his own face" ... is that what he did, it wasn't clear.

Childish, sure was but to fire him because of THAT? No way. Gross over reaction. Lighten up guys we're not talking about something really serious like putting a cone of silence over asylum seekers drowning at sea.

He didn't take the pic and he didn't post it.
Are we really expecting sports people to be saints? Common. we should apply the same rules to him that we do to ourselves.

If we fired everyone that does something stupid there would be very few people working.

Look at what is going on with the Rinehart family and they have billions."Facebook can make us happy or sad" ... so what? Any media can and does do that ask Murdoch or any publication which uses propaganda to further its owners beliefs. 

Should we be angry about it? Maybe but I don't see what that would achieve. Much better to find another source of information then those that use language to incite rather then to inform.

Its hard to know which is the greater threat to rational environmental policies Abbott or the Greens.

Seeing that it is the holier then thou attitude of the Greens that in fact gave us Abbott and no climate change measures what so ever I personally could give a stuff what the Greens think.

That party seem to lack one logical bone in their collective body and Labor would be well advised to stay clear of making any deals with them in the future.

Palmer's latest antics are a joke and the Greens falling all over themselves to say what a great guy he was, at least at first, is yet their latest mess up.
Abbott said he believes in man made climate change. Is he wrong?


Take the element of climate change out of the issue and you are left with the pollution caused by burning fossil fuels. Isn't that reason enough to change the way we both gather and use energy?

Yes if we delete all people there wouldn't be man made pollution. However there are people so don't burn fossil fuels.


To my mind there is a much bigger question at hand and that is why would a government knowing that the big banks have an obvious history of abusing their customers now make that task easier?

Why spend millions chasing Labor and unions with commissions and ignore the biggest thief of them all the banks? 

Just one more step toward a big end of town dictatorship.


Blaming Keating is fairly weak. Weren't there any other government's after his?

The banks don't own the country. We still do elect those that govern. We might not like them now but we can kick them out and try again.

Did governing end after Keating?

You throw around the term left like it was some catch all phrase of everything bad but you do realise there was another government after Keating. Why didn't they take action if what Keating set up was so bad?


Yes I agree investigate unions but if we were serious about real reform then ALL segments of society should come under investigation. Look how many crooked business people there are. How many bent share traders, lawyers, politicians. 

Just focusing on unions shows all the signs of a political agenda and nothing more.


So you agree that the banks are ripping off society and should be investigated just as hard as the unions?

In fact don't limit it to just the banks heck go in hard on the bigger thief's of society go after the law profession. Then into mining companies, share trading, every religion going, construction companies, but most of all into political parties and how they get their money. NOW that would be worth the money and give us all joy and a bag full of quips to last us a life time.

That is what we are all asking for ... consistency. I have no problem with investigations into unions but why just unions? I put it to you that Abbott is using a probe into unions for political means. On the basis of which segment of society is more corrupt the business world has it in spades over unions.

The problem isn't in my world mate you are the one that doesn't want to include other corrupt segments of society ... like lawyers maybe?

PS ... the law is a closed shop. People have no choice but to jump through the legal hoops your lot set up.

There is a very good reason why your profession is one of the most hated in the world only surpassed by politicians.


Are you serious?

Keep pretending that there isn't anything wrong with the legal profession if you like.

I spent years as a union delegate and never once was there any heavy handiness or sign of corruption on the union's part so for you to bang on about union corruption is offensive to me.

You live in an ivory tower and don't have a clue what harm your profession dispenses.

Are you that weak that you take a shot at artists? We are all employed. It is just that we don't have a sure fire mechanism of sucking money out of the poor.

"ask for consistency." exactly what I asked for, so where is that consistency when the Abbott government spends millions chasing Labor and then ignores the going on of the banks. We have the most profitable banks in the world. Some who think a bit might want to know why.

I worked as a union delegate, "That's hardly surprising" ... Yep I worked without pay to help people.

At least an electrician earns their money. Lawyers just play with words. Sure you can represent yourself and good luck trying to figure out what the law really means. There is a reason they make it so complicated ... to keep the punters blinded by their legalise.


The web sites I saw place them just ahead of bouncers and parking police, though the site also said that divorce lawyers were the most hated PROFESSIONAL of all.

"easy to sit on an ABC website and throw unsubstantiated allegations" ... yep like unions are corrupt and Abbott witch hunt is OK while banks and the legal profession can run riot.Agreed, Clive is a media invention with little substance.

Funny yes, but relevant,no.At this point it is not the public that is keen to get in bed with Palmer but the media. Maybe you guys are bored I don't know but I don't see a lot of in-depth reporting going on.

All Palmer has done is given you a wiz bang show and you are gobsmacked. Get over it and please do it quickly.

We now have NO plan to deal with climate change and no idea when if ever we will have a plan. So Abbott has gotten what he wants and this is good? The Greens fell all over themselves  patting Palmer on the back and for what? Nothing much that I can see. 

Labor is quiet as a door mouse and maybe with good reason. At some point people are going to look at Clive and see a emperor with no clothes.

One would hope so.

The title of the Forum was "The Festival of Dangerous Ideas". That in itself is going to stir some blood. If they had added the word 'are' to the title of this guys speech they might have got away with it but even then it would have very close to bordering on the inflammatory. 

Why Badar thinks people are having a shot at Islam shows a lack of understanding of the social morals of Australia. It would be like giving a speech questioning the Holocaust or whether or not the Aboriginals were the first inhabitants of Australia.

Surely we can discuss controversial issues. I think Australia allows far more discussion on difficult issues then most Islamic country but there are lines that should be crossed only in a manner which shows some appreciation for the population's sensitivities and the brutality of Honour Killings is one of those.

 

"The Federal Senate resolved unanimously on March 18 that something needs to be done" ... well that should be obvious but the question is what and which branch of government should do it and of course where will the money come from.

Maybe until we can sort out these sorts of issues Australia should forgo those new beaut fighter jets Abbott is lusting over.

One could build and maintain a lot of quality facilities for $24 billion and counting.




What has he done regarding this issue?

We are not far off a third of his term in office at some point he has to take responsibility for something. And yes Labor had plenty of time but failed to act so they don't deserve any pats on the back.


Abbott has appointed himself the Minister for Aboriginal affairs. He has stated his concern regarding this issue and after over 9 months has done nothing to address the issue.

When he wants to he gets involved in state issues. There is nothing to stop him putting pressure on the two states involved to act both are lead by the LNP.

A LEADER finds a way.


PS.

"The Federal Senate resolved unanimously on March 18 that something needs to be done, and has been given draft legislative principles charting reforms and a shift toward community care and respect for human rights that should become legislation as quickly as possible.

"As the Prime Minister said in his speech to the Sydney Institute in 2013: Aboriginal people should be at the heart of the government, in word and in deed."

 
"Is there really a sentient being in Australia who doesn't appreciate the fact that the planet is warming" ... yep plenty.

Now we have the axing of a carbon tax for the hope of an ETS with no teeth, why bother? I mean really its much about nothing. Like kissing one's mother when lusting after Kylie Minogue. 

And why did Gore put his name to this? And a more important question for Australia is how will it play in voter-ville.  I wait with a bated breath for the answer to that question.Read the replies ... and these are just the ones that read this ABC page.


That seems to be a smear. 

Gore was in Australia anyway and seems like he was trying to get Palmer to take some sort of positive action. Unfortunately it doesn't seem like Palmer has as much control of his Senate members as he thinks because it was their refusal to go along with an ETS that has made this entire situation nothing more then a stunt.


We have a carbon tax not and ETS. In broad terms the difference is with an ETS you set a goal and let business decide how it will best meet that goal.

Why Gore let himself be used like this would make an interesting story.

That wasn't the question.Must admit I was amused by Mr Palmer and Al Gore on the same stage, so an 'A' for staging.

An ETS is the best way to deal with this issue, however if we are having to wait until as yet some undisclosed number of countries also sign up to such an approach we will be waiting awhile.

I guess the good news is we won't be wasting money on the nonsense 'Direct Action Plan'.

I don't know how this is all going to play out but Palmer seems like he will liven up the next few years, that is if Abbott doesn't find a way to put him in prison.

You do remember that Abbott gained power by opposing an ETS?

I'll wait until the bill is passed and see what conditions are actually included before I jump for joy or slash my wrist. I suspect it will leave me feeling somewhere in the middle maybe just have an extra nip of scotch. 


Nothing has been won just forestalled. If you seriously have doubts then surely you would go with the safer bet and back proposals to limit the impact of climate change. What have you go to lose? A few dollars maybe? 


You are not sure about climate change, OK, but are you willing to think a little outside the square?

What is burning coal and running industries that produce pollution just foul up the air you breath? Would you then be ready to act to change that impact on your health?

If you are willing to consider the impact of air pollution but are still not convinced it is happening then just look at China. The pollution there cannot be any clearer and the cause of that pollution cannot be more obvious.

But I don't think the science is really your problem with this issue. I suspect your real problem is that the fight against such pollution is coming from groups you don't approve of so therefore You cannot accept the situation.

You must be joking?

If coal pollutes in China it does exactly then  same thing here. The only difference is the amount we burn. The pollution is not as great, yet, but it is happening.

What has to happen before you really think about this problem? You'd rather not spend a few dollars on the off chance that the burning of fossil fuels isn't as bad here as it is in China so it can't be a problem?

So you describe yourself as a "practical person". No wonder you make such silly comments.

Fewer people wouldn't stop the problem just not make it so bad. The problem is the technology we are using to produce energy.


Think before you write.

The problem is the technology. If there are fewer people and they still use technology that pollutes what has the earth gained? A few more years before it all turns to poo.

Seems like the deal is done. The ETS will only come into play sometime in the deem distant future. Palmer is all stage with no play.I'll try again ...

Interesting event this so called meeting of the minds between Gore and Palmer. I wonder what Palmer paid Gore to show up.

I don't know how this is going to play out but Palmer seems to have the ability to grab the limelight against all odds. I think Abbott will have his hands full dealing with this guy.

But hey we all need a little humour in our lives and Palmer seems to have a knack of putting himself front and centre.

"Australia's generally diligent media tries to give equal voice to both sides of politics" ... really? Tell that to the readers of the Murdoch media group.

I spent a little time in the land of the journalist and tried to follow that rule. What I found is that the people that are against a particular issue can be very vocal and threatening. 

The community I lived in had a group that didn't want wind farms. So they bullied the media, myself, the council and anyone that said anything positive about such developments. It got to the point that those in favour just shut up.

That is what seemed to happen during Abbott's time in office. With Murdoch's help the opposition to Labor was deafening. The media that wasn't Murdoch was cowered into silence. So now we are stuck with this train wreck of a government but does one hear anything negative from the Murdoch group about the stuff ups? Not a word.

And now  we find Al Gore and Palmer hand in hand telling us how they/we can save the world. THIS should be interesting. I suspect Abbott is about to lose even more of what little hair he has.

I reckon Palmer is in his ideal environment (pun intended).



If Palmer joins with the Greens and Labor to force another election he will have done a good thing.

Abbott flat out lied to get elected. He should not be PM.


Gillard could negotiate. Abbott can't. That is why I said he should never become PM.

Now Palmer has him by the throat. And all he can do is wiggle. I am splitting my sides.


"Festival of Dangerous Ideas" that was the idea of this dare one say 'Festival'. So in that context one can see a point.

The first question I would ask is who else was giving speeches and what were those speeches about or was this guy the only one?

If one really believes in the pure concept of free speech then such a festival would be appropriate in a free society. I would have been interested in how someone would speak to such a topic and who would actually sit through such a speech.



"Greens to oppose the reintroduction of fuel excise indexation was an act of fear or hubris." why does it have to be one or the other?

I don't know why the Greens are backing away from supporting this bill. I suspect it is for a number of reasons.

Why Abbott has raised it is also anyone's guess. It is hard to know what he really thinks on this and several other issues. 

Once he was for the Federal government taking over hospitals now he wants the states to handle everything. 

Once he was all against lying, at least when it came to Gillard, now its just part of governing. 

Once climate change was crap now it is being caused by humans.

Once he was against paid parental leave now he is for it.

He was quoted in the US as saying it was an "on steroids" way of fighting climate change while here he seems to make light of it saying it will only cost people $.40 a week.

Personally I think the fuel tax will grow as an issue over years not in the short term.  

As for Abbott he will continue to stick his feet in his mouth every chance he gets. That is what happens when you govern through thought bubbles.

"I suspect it is for a number of reasons." You forgot this bit.

Unlike you I don't know all of the reasons people or parties do things and unless you were part of the Greens discussions on this issue I don't see how you can make your comment.

Income equality is one though not the only reason my wife and I resettled in Australia. 

The difference between the USA and Australia in the late 1970's was very striking. In my opinion it was how things were meant to be and now it is in danger of being lost. That is why Abbott and Hockey must be stopped. 

The nonsense is this idea that we need to move into an "End of Entitlement", but whose entitlement? The most vulnerable, those less likely to speak up for themselves certainly not the rich.

Abbott and Hockey are at war with these people. There is no budget emergency. There is no mass ripping off of the system by the poor or disabled. If you look at the stats the percentage of welfare misconduct is trending downwards.

If you want to look at people that feel entitled look at Rinehart and Murdoch. They play with us like we are their little toy.  
For a lawyer you seem to be tripping over your typing fingers.

Read MD's comment.

Unfortunately there will not be another election soon and the gods only know what the world will look like in another two and a half years. 

We might not need another election though because Mr 'I just lost a billion' Palmer is going to give hope to the world. I can hardly wait.If our debt is so bad where is the money coming to fund the hundred's of millions of dollars for "security" of our airports and internet as well as their plans to assist in Iraq?

If he LNP were honest they would bring down a new tax to pay for the measures they have and are planning to put into place. Other wise they are just leaving this burden, our present security needs, onto the next generation.


Who cares there is a need to lift lagging poll numbers.

This isn't about making sense its all about politics. 

You want a war? The who is going to pay for it?

If Abbott and the right want a war so much then have a new tax to pay for that war.

If we don't have money for health, education and the disadvantaged then we don't have enough to go to war.


If there is such a threat then the measures needed to block it should be paid for with a special tax.

This new security tax should be directed at those most in the line of fire. Financial, tourism, airlines, posh restaurants,  the law profession, miners and the like.

I do, yes.




Look at a map.

Where is Australia and where is Iraq on the map?

Look at the countries that are just north and to the north west of Iraq? Rather more powerful and more impacted upon then Australia don't you think?

Look on this same map just north of Australia? Which Islamic country do you notice?

Our efforts should be squarely on our region.

I think it was the Australian Intelligence Chief that said our involvement in Iraq will heighten our risk of a terrorist attack. 

Over 20,000 Australians died from heart disease in 2012, over 10,000 from dementia, over 8,000 from lung cancer. How many died from terrorism?

Over and over again Australia has been sucked into conflicts which don't impact on them. It is about time people stood up and said enough is enough.



'We don't have a strategy yet' ... Obama.

APM you are a fool to support a conflict when the main party leading that conflict doesn't even have a plan yet.



Which Asian country is going to invade Australia?

As Merkel said ... "The Cold War," she has said, "should be over for everyone." ... so to should regional conflicts.

Its time the world grew up.

We are BECOING a target because according to the head of Australian Intelligence because we are getting involved in a conflict that is taking place in the Middle East.

Our attention should be 100% on our region. Paying attention to this area would keep us safe from terrorism.

"Tony Abbott's too honest moment" ... and yet after having acknowledged that he rorted the system nothing happens. And they wonder why we get angry with them.

The man gets free suits, a free education for his child and all other sorts of freebies and nothing happens.

Then he has the gaul to go after others that have also abused the system. Give me a break.

And now to break the voter's attention from a budget disaster he wraps himself in a cloak of hyper patriotism. 

You want to fight the hordes of crazed extremist, fine then off you go.

Didn't you see how well our involvement went last time? How many times do you want to make the same mistake?

When you realise that our best defence is a strong regional relationship then maybe you will understand that we have no job to do in Iraq. There are plenty of countries in that area that are capable of doing what is needed.

Who said Gillard was right to rort the system?

If Gillard was wrong, and I think she was in this case then so is Abbott, agreed?

HECS as other have informed you has to be paid back.

The education Abbott's daughter received wasn't on the level

'hyper-patriotism' is, exactly" is when you start talking about hordes of extremists about to attack Australia.

You many have missed it but Abbott did talk about the possibility of putting troops into the conflict while he was in England. At the same time as Bishop and the American delegation were saying there wouldn't be ground troops put into Iraq.How quickly you forget Abbott's banging on about trips overseas by Rudd while he has now made just as many.

Didn't say other politicians aren't rorting the system but the last time I looked it was Abbott that was PM. Are rusted on LNPer's ever going to accept that they are in government?


My outrage is that having banged on about the rorting of the system by Labor we now find the PM doing that and more. 

If you were against Gillard's rorting of the system then surely you are against Abbott's actions?I'll try for a third time.

If Gillard rorted the system she was wrong.

Abbott admitted to rorting the system.

At which point do we stop arguing who rorted the system and start making so NOONE gets away with rorting the system?

Its not the need for cuts its who is doing the "heavy lifting" and who isn't.

I mean why are you in denial about the reason for the obstruction of the opposition parties?

The budget isn't fair, full stop.

And to get your mind off of that Abbott is pounding on about the hordes of extremists banging at our door.

You seem more irate then happy.

I think I think clearly answered your comment except you didn't address the points I really made in mine.

The entire reason Abbott is banging on about going off to war in the Middle East is to distract from the budget.

Again if we can't support our elderly, youth and those in need why are we going off to war half way around the globe?


The reason? Politics. 

So the budget hangs on only $5 billion does it?

Heck I thought there was an emergency. Is a $5 billion debt an emergency?

"caterwauling and decrying about 'unfairness' " Our unemployed going with out benefits for 6 months a year and you don't think that is unfair?

At the same time we are willing to spend billions helping bomb Iraq and Syria?

The LNP's priorities are to put it bluntly disgusting.

So you'd just let them starve wold you?

Better spending money on dropping bombs in Iraq then on actual places for higher learning and training?



Look at the cost of going to University. That is the issue not whether or not all higher education would receive HECS style schemes.

Though now that you mention it that was the very point the Director of White House School of design asked Abbott to allow.

You remember the Director of the same school that his daughter went to ... for free.Ye p must have fear and plenty of it. Other wise how we get Australians minds off the unfair budget.


When is debt not a problem for the LNP?

Answer ... When there are people to kill in some far off country.

bugger our own young, elderly and poor. There is glory and photo opportunities to be had.

How many Australians have died from terrorist attacks in Australia? 

From which country are we most likely to experience terrorism?

How many have died from spouse abuse, cancer, dementia, heart disease? 

How many more will die because of the budget cuts to our young, our elderly or desperate? 



And Abbott stands for rorting the system, going off to war when we supposedly can't support our young for more then 6 months, cutting education, health, pensions, the ABC and SBS ... then telling us that we are ready to send troops to Iraq if asked.

THAT"s what Abbott stands for, hypocrite.


Let me state it now I am 100% against Australia's involvement in any military actions in Iraq. Look at a map. Are focus should be on this area there are plenty of other countries to bomb the heck out of ISIL.

Being involved will only make us more of a target.

If Peter you are indeed concerned about our boarders then force the government to get its nose out of the Middle East and have them paying attention to this region. 

There are plenty of idiots in our own region that we can bomb if that is really what you want to do. I'd prefer that we spend our time working within this region not following my home country into yet another conflict.


Its morphed into much more then a matter of factions. First off the Sunni's and Shia's are not factions. They are like say the Catholics and Baptist.

But the ISIL have gone way beyond that while they claim an allegiance to  Islam they are no more Islamic then al Qaeda. 

You are correct it has nothing to do with Australia. It is your leaders attempt to show off his hairy chest. It is one of the reasons I didn't nor could I ever vote for the man. He idolises the military and is just looking for his place in history.

Really? Which party led you into the invasion of Afghanistan, Iraq, and Vietnam?

The only reason we are getting involved in this conflict is because Abbott needed a lift in the polls.


If the unions have too much power it sure isn't showing itself in wage growth. As I remember it recent stats show wages growing around 2.5 while inflation is at 3%. 

Add to that the increased prices of houses and an increase in unemployment and a blind freddy can see a problem and it's not unions.
Wages growth that unions get flow on into the workplace.

Now the CEO's wages growth comes out of pure and utter greed. Isn't it rich that they complain about unions when we see the likes of Joyce destroying a company while being paid bucket loads.

And while they are at it dump the board.

Qantas is a goner. Time to let it go into the history books as a failure.

That's it Fred? All you have to add is a question regarding the use of the word 'creative' as a noun?

Probably isn't in the pure scheme of things but the use of the word presents a clear picture of what is intended to me. Seems rather a creative use of the language, something English has been open to for a very long time.

"Cliveisms to come", good statement. Clive should provide plenty of quality moments the question is will his brand of politicking mean just showmanship or actual changes to the government's agenda.

Its a case of watch this space I guess. He does seem excellent at grabbing the spotlight.

Then point out where he is wrong Evil ... just making some broad sweeping statement that Jonathan is just having a go at Abbott is a waste of tie.

Is there any doubt that Abbott obtained government through ruthless opposition? Helped along a fair way with the help of the Murdoch press?

To be fair Abbott has taken his cue in my opinion from the conservatives, especially the Tea Party, in the USA. There one sees constant obstructionist approach to Obama's presidency. The end result is few things get done and their is a growing frustration with the democratic process.

It seems to be a conservative tactic and it works if the destruction of the governing party, as it seems to be, is the only objective.

I can see that Abbott's spin doctors are in full flight, what's the pay and working conditions like guys?

Graham I wish that Rudd and Gillard had taken their cue from Keating.

So Abbott is trying his best. If this is Abbott's best he should resign and let the only minister that actually looks competent in her position J. Bishop take over.

Labor acting like the Tea party? do some research on the Tea party. Then look at Abbott's time in opposition. If possible take off the blinkers.

Water ... A dysfunctional alliance which passed a record number of bills and major reform through while also providing an economy that helped Asutralians have the highest median wealth in the world during the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression ... righ.

Realist ... low unemployment, low inflation, highest median wealth in the world ... that is what you define as a dysfunctional government? Might I suggest your credibility is zero.

Well I'm not paid to make comment so I have some real work to do see you later.So, what are your pay and working conditions? Because you sure don't have a regular job or if you did you should be fired.

Dysfunctionality has a totally new meaning under the train wreck of an Abbott government.

Again I point out the obvious to you ... AAA rating, low unemployment, low inflation, and the ability to pass more legislation then you could shake a stick at.

In its place we have ... let's go bomb'em Abbott, maybe no one will notice what a mess I am making of my job.


"May not being as well as he should", other then stirring up angst over the hordes of craze Islamic extremists knocking at our door what have been the accomplishments of Abbott?

Shorten doesn't push himself forward as well as Abbott did while he was in opposition but then Shorten doesn't have the advantage of the Murdoch press to trumpet his cause.

Shorten is certainly no Obama when it comes to giving speeches but he gets points across. That you don't want to hear his objections is not a concern.

Well I am glad I made one of Abbott's spinners happy.
Have a good day but don't mention the war.

Well written Jonathan. The question is where to from here?

I suspect Abbott's pronounced call to arms against the hordes of Extremists that are knocking on our door will help him in the polls but there is still his vexing problem of the budget and the managing of the government.

Each week seems to bring one more aspect of the disunity within his government and the lack of a clear path on how to get through to the public how his approach is going to help.

We are no fixed for another two years with a childish mob keen to put their political ideology into play at all cost. 

 
An ETS not a carbon tax big difference. That was a position Howard supported and Abbott for that matter, but in the case of abbot which issue hasn't he had a number of positions on?

You'd prefer the 'Direction Action' approach? And who pays for that? I saw some weeks ago that they've projected that approach will cost us $35 billion a year all paid for by you and me, well probably not me I'll more then likely be pushing up daisies by then.

You want a mess look at the government which is at each others throats.

There isn't a church going that hasn't abused young people.

Blame them all for the problem is in having organisations run by men with no restraints placed on their behaviour. Be they religious, military or charitable organisations.



I don't see why post offices have to make a profit. They are essential especially in the rural areas.

Add to the insult of selling off Australia Post it has now come to light that the Abbott government is going to sell off the hearing assistance arm of government. This government service has been going since the late 1940's and has been a great help to those with children with hearing problems especially, again, in the rural areas. 

What is the Nats doing? Have they given up trying to help the bush?

"many of these people" ... I sued to hear similar things said about blacks in the USA when they were talking about civil rights issues.

That is not an argument that holds any water gbe. In your mind maybe but if you really want to create a divide society have the LNP use that as part of their slogan in the net election.

Some very rich people are criminal in their attempts to hide their wealth so they are not taxed.  So where does that get us?

And I know some very rich that take considerable glee in avoiding paying any tax.

The question really is not if we pay down debt but how one does so in a fair manner.

Australia the laughing stock gbe? That is why so many people are trying to get into the place?

Agree more or less. The things that worry me now is that wages are growing slower then inflation. Unemployment going up. That housing prices are going up and that interest rates are due to start increasing within the next 6 months or so. 

Add to this the failure of a clear message on what the government is up to and where the benefits will be. Abbott is hamstringing the renewable industry worth billions in favour of the coal industry whose future is not that impressive. As well we have the gas industry about to increase its charges some 25% over the next three years.

We are desperate for skilled labour yet are cutting back on money to those areas. I don't get it what does Abbott and co. think is going to happen? Neither Murdoch nor Rinehart are going to save the country's economy. Where is growth going to come from in their world?



A few facts for you to consider ...
In 2010 Australian high grade coal was selling for $220 (US) per tonne. Same type of coal as of July 2014 is selling for $73.66 (US) per tonne.

Do you see the problem?

Yes India needs coal and may well get quite a bit from Australia but that country also has very large reserves.

Their problem is they have no means of transporting their mined coal to the generators that need it. The train system that was suppose to do that job is way behind schedule.


News item ...  "More than 100 organisations from around the country have signed a statement protesting the "unnecessary and harsh proposals" put forward by the Coalition Government in its May 13 budget."

You totally miss the point. The argument isn't whether or not we address the nations debt it is how that is done.

Do we do it off the backs of the poor or the wealthy?

SVJ, for whom? 

I urge you to take your approach to the LNP. Let them promote the concept that the poor are just a burden on growth and don't deserve assistance. 



"Why does your solution have to be so class divisive?"  you are pulling my leg right?

How can you  "Forget about rich and poor in the equation"? It is at the very heart of the issue.

The LNP use the term heavy lifting and yet by an overwhelming proportion it is the poor that are doing the lifting.

I sure will say target one not the other because that is blindly obvious what needs to be done.

"Welfare spending is out of control" ... absolute bullocks. Australia has a well managed and targeted welfare system. One of the best in the world.

What it doesn't have is a taxation system that is anywhere near as well managed.

The GST is one of the worst routs going especially in the building trades. Farmers also abuse the system something dreadful. You want to plug the holes then look at tax reform that target the rich.

It is not a question of whether or not debt should be reduced but which part of society should be required to do the heavy lifting.

The breakthrough that is necessary is for the LNP to understand that we are not going to get rid of debt through putting the burden on the poor.

When you acknowledge that point THEN and only then can we really deal with the issue.

Against Murdoch and Rinehart, so it could be worse.

Whose, gbe, do you trust Rupert's poll or Morgan's?

You sure? He is going to hand out buttons and make a movie with him in a green and gold outfit with red swimmers (on the outside of course) saving us from the hordes of nasty people.

Can one get any dumber then coming up with Team Australia? Common on rusted on LNPers even you have to agree Team Australia was a stupid slogan. It is bound to be made fun of for years.


Someone should have told them to add the word 'of'.

I personally am waiting for the movie. Who do you think will play Abbott? Let's see my guess would be ... Mr Ed.


Wait a minute I take offense to that statement.  Tony has been spouting off these sorts of slogans for years. He is way past anything Americans would do.

We left that go when we saw what "Mission Accomplished" meant."Loads of useless and irrelevant statistical data" ... just saying 'Operation Team Australia' is enough for you?

Because as Abbott has said ... ?The murderous hordes of ISIL, now the Islamic State are on the march.? Just kidding. Abbott would love to get boots on the ground to show us his manhood however for the moment he is left to encourage the local Muslim community to start a fight here.

There is no reason on earth why we should join in this mess. The nations that should, Turkey, Saudi Arabia all of Europe are at best giving a little humanitarian aid, at worse they are feeding the mess.

Islam has a real problem and it will take a very long time for it to sort itself out. Let's all encourage our political leaders to stay away from the Middle East.




Why we might ... politics. Why we should, no reason what so ever.

Lets have a little touch of the real Lordy ... there is no way in gods green earth that the mob calling itself whatever today is going to impose anything on the Western World.

That Islam has a problem is true. That their 7th Century culture will impact on other countries is also true but to go past those statements is to exaggerate. 

Right now the Islamic Hordes are a political opportunity for politicians like Abbott to show their hairy chest, little more.

A good way to stop this nonsense is to block the money coming into ISIL. With all the means of security at our government and many others it should be easy. Once the money dries up, those with ISIL will fade away.

What we don't need to do is encourage Australian Muslims to feel victimised and singled out for governmental abuse.

And I bet you were as happy as larry when Howard joined the coalition of the idiots that helped destabilise the middle east.

The answer is for people to stop killing each other and start talking. If they ever want peace they will have to sooner or later.

A good example of how the LNP deals with groups is the AMA. 

The LNP asked them for a different approach to the $7 co payment. The AMA provided one. It wasn't until the AMA released their opinion weeks later that the LNP even acknowledged the AMA's idea.

It is a common thread, the LNP asked for suggestions, publically, but privately they don't make an effort to talk with the other major players.

Abbott lied to get elected and he just keeps on lying. Why would anyone trust him?

That wasn't my point.

Agree or disagree with the AMA is one thing it was the unwillingness of the LNP to even acknowledge the proposal is the point.

If you want to have a discussion you have to first off acknowledge the right of other parties to disagree.

And they say I go viral against Abbott.

True though why would Labor support Abbott? Look what happened to the Democrats after they supported Howard's GST. Best to let Abbott and Hockey twist slowly in the wind then to let its 'marauding hordes' led by Captain Abbott (sorry I couldn't help myself) pass their unfair budget.

PS, when is Abbott going to pass out 'Team Australia' buttons?


First off the LNP should figure out their message. Are we in a budget emergency or not? Should the Minister for Defence be talking about the GST or should he be talking about his portfolio. 

Should the PM run over to Europe when the heavies from the USA come here to talk about not only the Iraq situation but also a build up of USA forces here in Australia? 

 Should the PM actually let the Minister for Communications talk about the Metadata issue or should we listen to him stubble through an explanation of something so complex?

It just goes on and on. Every week we can count on some foot in mouth moment  from this "Adult" government.

Until they actually know what they want it is pointless for them to negotiate with any party on any issue.
If you aren't scared by what you see going on with the Abbott government's handling of the economy you must be blind.

Unemployment up to 6.4%, wages below inflation. housing prices booming and an inability to pass their budget. Add to this a government that can't keep on message for a week. A sure sign of disaster.
Yes Democracy needs a strong media, but even more importantly it needs a balanced media. In this area Murdoch has failed badly. He abuses his power and I for one would be happy to see the back of him.

For the print media to be replaced we need a decent internet access and speeds, something that still seems to be on a far horizon. What has happened to the NBN or its LNP replacement?
For the last few weeks I have been experiencing internet problems. When we get a reliable internet service across the country we might see the death of hard copy news papers. Until that blessed day I'll keep buying my 9 hard copy newspapers per week.

Lucky you.

Seriously does anyone know if the government is rolling out the NBN or are they sitting on their hands?
The NBN is not even on the schedule for where I live. It is however good to see it is still happening. 

Count yourself lucky burke.



The very basic element of balanced journalism is the presentation of both sides of an issue. The Murdoch News doesn't understand this. Read the AFR sometime to get a idea of what is required. 

What you will find is at least two different points of views the reader then can make up their own mind which is the truth.

Here is my point in a nutshell ... news stories are suppose to answer the questions of 'who, what, where and occasionally why'. If it goes outside those parameters it fails as a news story and becomes an opinion.

The better papers then have a range of opinion writers. Those that show a bias one way or the other tend to have more writing one view AND they are also given better space. usually the right hand side or one that flows across the page.

Where the Murdoch press fails is in its news stories. They bend the who what when where and why to suit their opinion.


The 'Fin" or AFR does have Labor AND LNP writers. Those are opinions not news. If you were to really read the paper you would see news items. There is a big difference. That you fail to see this difference I think points to you not the paper in question.

Yes papers have a bias but it should never show when they are writing 'news' stories and that is the problem with The Australia. It has failed to keep its opinions out of the news. Its opinions have become the news.

Actually you are wrong once again. For all its faults and it does have them Fairfax media is making a profit. They have also outsold the Murdoch press. 

If you can't distinguish the difference between opinion and news maybe you should look a little closer. Its pretty obvious to me.

I ran a small newspaper. both setting up the pages and writing some of the stories.

That is where I gained my insight into journalism. 

Where did you gain your insight into how a newspaper should run?


Ran the paper, involved for a few years as a radio guest, and 8 years as media officer for a council.

During all this experience I made the point of spelling out what was opinion and what was news. I never mixed the two. Why would you? Unless you have a giant ego that needs constant refilling.

Excuse me but which person is in government and which isn't?

Gillard made her mistakes and has paid for it with her political life. Abbott is in the cross hairs now BECAUSE he is the PM. It goes with the job.

You better start giving them a lot more because they are sinking fast.

I read numerous hard copy and internet news outlets. The main difference is that they tend to know the meaning of the word balance.

Check out the AFR sometime. You will almost always see at least two versions of the same issue. The reader can then make up their own mind. That is the golden rule of the media ... balance.

In their opinions it is OK for a news paper to show its bias but NOT in its news stories. When the news becomes used for opinions the paper has failed in its duty of care. In is in this area that the Murdoch corp has gone off the rails.




Yes they do ... in their opinion sections but not their news articles and that is the entire point.

The ABC here is an example. We have a bias towards the left with opinions I accept that to be the case but when you go to the news you have facts not opinions and that is how it should be.

Murdoch's papers blend opinion with news.

"Australia does NOT need a balanced news media," ... really?

Journalism 101 without balanced journalism all you get is opinion. My opinion or your opinion are just that. 

Facts not bias is the rock bed foundation of journalism. If you don't understand that basic point you don't understand the pitfalls of jingoistic nonsense posing as factual.

I'll try yet again... 

The problem happens when the 'news' (the who what when of an event) is used to present opinions. The twain of the two should never meet, IF, one is presenting the news in a balanced manner.

Current (soggy copper) ADSL speeds are sufficient ,,, maybe where you live but in my area it struggles.

This site continues to drop out on me so I will still be pushing for the NBN before I give hard copies away.

The AGE should not tilt one way over the other regarding its news content. It can with its opinion pieces but we are talking two different things.

Where the Australian gets it messed up is its news stories distort the facts of an event to show its bias. THAT is the problem.

Journalism 101 is write news that define when where why and who. That is how a news story is to be written.

Have a go with opinion pieces by all means but don't cross the line when writing the news.

There seems to be a total lack of understanding regarding what is or isn't journalism.

A news story is the who what where of an event. Journalists write news stories.

Opinion is one person's point of view. Anyone and his or her dog write opinion pieces.

Where Murdoch press gets it mixed up is to include opinion in its news stories.

You better start buying a lot more Australians because that paper is bleeding dollars at an alarming rate. Or maybe you should buy some of their stocks? 


And what does that have to do with the price of bread?

When the dollars going out in private enterprises don't match the dollars coming in it spells the end of the line.

The share holders don't especially like a business that is losing money.

Thank god the ABC doesn't have to make a profit. 

OH gosh am I surprised, politicians are corrupt or at least some of them.

Until there is no money allowed from outside sources will we have a need for the ICAC. It is time for publically funded elections.

On a council through Federal level it is hard to respect those that govern us when we see the sort of rorting that is going on.


"pay respect to the ideal of "the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth". Your truth is another person's lie, ask Abbott.

Very little money, very little advertising. Maybe, just maybe, more debates on issues.

The present system is broken. It is broken because money talks. Take out the money and you're on the road to a better government.

Also while you're at it take out party politics. Allow every elected member to vote their conscience. Now that would be interesting.

When you go into an election saying you will not take money away from education, health, ABC, SBS, or the aged and your very first budget does exactly that what would you call the person? Giving an opinion during the election or making a promise?

Maybe we use different dictionaries.


I understand the present system is complicated so lets make it simple. No money no advertising, only debates.

If you don't make it simple people will find a way through the cracks, so don't leave any.

As for lobby groups as I've said before no political person or government person should ever accept a gift for him or herself at anytime. When I worked for a local council I had to give back any item I received even if it was a simple as a ball point pen.

So far others seem to have controlled his enthusiasm for war but for how much longer.

Was there really a need for him to claim that beheadings could happen here in Australia?

Abbott like Howard before him wants you to be afraid, in this case of Muslims.

Maybe you missed the recent story of a person that seems to have wanted to bomb Sydney. He wasn't Muslim he was an Australian with a criminal background.

Murders happen all the time. You are more likely however to die from pollution then an attack from a Muslim. So what are you willing to do about that?



But he encourages even more enemies it seems to be in his DNA. He is always looking for a reason to fight. 



"You still seemed to judge Abbott for the alleged punched wall back at University."

 Where in my comment did I mention that event?Yes it would be hypocritical to mention the wall hitting event and the case around Shorten IF anyone had?

The first person to mention Abbott hitting the wall and connecting it to Shorten was Craig and
and before him Graham in their defence of Abbott.

They dredged that event up on their own accord because my comment nor did others mentioned it.Think a bit about this Ben. Would an intelligent person really act in the manner of Abbott?

Can you really justify his position regarding the events in Iraq?

Where is the rest of the world?

Like Saudi Arabia? Or Turkey? Or any of the European countries? Look at how well Abbott's other attempts at taking the lead have gone.

If we can't afford to support our own youth for a full year how can you justify spending millions helping the refuges in Iraq when those in an obvious position to provide such aid do nothing?What makes you think that I'm not?

You said ... "What makes you think you are qualified to judge?"

You, as an unemployed lawyer, is asking the question. In return I am asking one of you. 

You have no idea what qualifications I have nor have you stated what qualifications you have to question mine.

Just like a lawyer you like to go around in circles.



How can something be "slightly" ridiculous? It either is or isn't.

How obvious does the answer to that have to be? No, of course not. 

If you  try to remember the course of events it was Abbott while on his whirl wind to Europe that said Australia stood ready to send troops while at just about the very same time Bishop having met with the USA was saying we wouldn't.

Read the article there are plenty of instances where Abbott has made a fool of himself to convince even the rusted on that the man is looking desperately for a fight, any fight.

I disagree. The West should lend a hand, seeing that Bush Howard and Blair helped make the present mess, but this requires a regional solution where regional political leaders need to get off their perches and do what is needed. That is put aside their hatred for each other and join to face their comment enemy.

The west taking over this fight is exactly what these idiots want. It would help foster their greater aim of a world wide fight of western values against Islamic ones.

Its bad enough that Abbott has taken the bait with his Team Australia nonsense we don't' need western countries in mass going down the race hate line.


Yes, but hard to get them off their butts.
 The USA, as Obama has said, is not going to nor can it resolve the issues involved, only those countries in the area can.

Obama is helping to Kurds at this point, if Syria wants the assistance of the USA then they must resolve their political issues. 

Assad has a choice, Obama or ISIL.

Where did I use the term racist?

Obama has made it clear, if you listened to him. He will help those countries that are willing to help themselves and willing to iron out their political difficulties. 

I would not be giving military weapons to any group. I would be giving food, medical supplies and air support but only on the conditions mentioned.

I would not, I repeat not, put boots on the ground. This is an Islamic problem that the west can only take a back seat on. They must solve the issues they have.

Please how many times do we need to follow sick our western foot into a situation only to make it worse.

Yes people were actually yelling out that the invasion of Iraq was a bad idea. Its just that Howard didn't want to listen he wanted a war. It helps in the polls. Hence why we see this being revisited by Abbott.


The Islamic State is all about one thing turning us all against each other. 

They know by taking the actions they take that there will be a backlash against Muslims. They want such a conflict.

And Abbott being the sort of person he is has bought into the nonsense. 

He could not have come up with a more devise approach then the Team Australia one. 

Its aim was squarely aimed at Muslims. Using emotive language like Radical hordes was meant to spilt the nation. 

The question is are the Australian people aware of Abbott's intentions and will see them for what they are? Or will we once again allow our selves to be aware and afraid like Howard made us?


The shared values displayed in Abbott's budget?

Abbott's response is exactly what the extremists want, the west to take punitive actions directed at Muslims. 

The very concept of national regulation to help the elderly goes against Abbott's vision of Team Australia.






I don't think Australians should be allowed to go overseas to buy a women's womb.

We should allow Australians to be paid to be a surrogate mother. Then we can have some control over the issue.

The couple I know that have gone through the process and have finally given birth to a live healthy child wouldn't agree with you.

Fine if you struggle with it then don't use the process. But for those that desperately want children it is a god send.

Don't make laws that just suit your view point.


Can't understand why it isn't clear to you?

People want a baby and they can't have that child through the traditional means so they pay someone to help them.

As long as there is oversight to make sure people are not abused I can't see anything wrong with the concept.

Better to have such actions taken in Australia rather then overseas.


"our values as a collective group...egalatarianism, tolerance, mutual respect, trust, diversity and democracy." ... 

really? Then someone should tell the PM what those words actually mean because I don't see them reflected in his policies.Not to mention Costello's budgets for middles class welfare and Hockey's inability to even deliver one budget.

Jonathan listed the complexity of Australian society.

You and Abbott live in the world of sound bites.

Diversity is a fact of life. Trying to define society as one that is either Team Australia or the hordes trying to tear that down is just a typical Abbott distraction. 

Jonathan outline the makeup of our society.

A good PM would not use simplistic words to try and explain complex concepts. And he or she certainly wouldn't single out one ethnic group as not playing by the rules of "Team Australia".
this problem will all be taken care of once Australia gets those jets they are buying from the USA.


And Murdoch and Rinehart are only looking after their interest. The difference is I guess that they have a total government under their control while Palmer only has a few seats in the Senate.

Really Clive is speaking to some 7% of the population and I would expect that at least that number believe he is totally correct.

China doesn't help itself by being the tough guy of Asia nor how it deals with legal matters.  

"Higher fuel prices make public transport more economically viable" ... first we would need to elect a government that understands and appreciates public transport.

If you can't afford to run a car under Abbott it will be your own fault. You didn't work hard enough.

There are also horses and cows to ride to town.



Even at their very worst neither Rudd nor Gillard were as bad as Abbott.

In my entire life I have never seen such a dysfunctional government. 

As for cars, well we have a very large country with very few people, seems our only choice is motor transport.

But if we were really interested in helping business we would build train transportation network. Taking the trucks off the road as much as possible.

sick to death of this "we are a large country with few people" garbage ... look at a map, then look at the total population spread across that map.


"Maybe the LNP should take this approach really stuff the budget up even more" ... haven't you been paying attention? They have and it is showing in the leap in unemployment and that inflation is higher then wages. add to this no budget approval in sight.


How can we take politicking out of politics?


"we can stop political tribalism simply by growing up" ... yep and the best people to take on that advise is the media baron Murdoch.

The question is who will drive it?

The main criteria would be a person people could trust and has demonstrated a willingness to listen to both sides of an argument. 

While I'd prefer Shorten over Abbott he doesn't seem to have the drive to take such a step.

Until you recognise the failings of the Howard government in the area o welfare for the middle and upper economic groups there is no point in talking.


You are right of course, everything to do with governing means politicking. The key I think is the ability of a leader that can reach out to most sides and explain what he or she is about to do and why. Please no more slogans. I'll not take one for 'Team Australia' nor will I be involved with any 'Heavy Lifting', my backs not too strong. 

However, I will listen to ideas and give my two cents worth and try to be positive.


Good article John, thanks.

It is hard for me to imagine Abbott coming up with something as complicated as you have outlined. He seems caught up in two or three word slogans. The most disturbing being the ?Team Australia? one where we are to join together to fight off the hordes of radical Muslims knocking at our very door and taking our welfare checks while they threaten our way of life.

Can?t say that Shorten has it in him either but seeing that Abbott has shot himself in the foot so many times that Bill doesn?t really have to do anything maybe he can dig deep and come up with some clever slogans as well.

We really need a Keating sort of leader. At least the Keating that came up with good ideas.

Anyway hope you continue to write for the ABC, thanks again.
A sterling job? Well I guess in comparison to the others yes. However that isn't the question at hand, which is, why is she venturing into the portfolio of the Treasurer? 

Chip ... admit it the Abbott government is a train wreck and its only decent Minister is Bishop.

The strange thing is with the Abbott government is that everyone seems to be stepping on the toes of other Ministers. The government doesn't seem to know who is responsible for what.

The only solution to this problem is political and agreed it would be way outside Ms Bishop's capabilities to come up with the way forward for Gaza.

But just looking at Hamas will not move the issue any closer to solution then it is now.


According to Abbott the LNP's problems in NSW are all Labor's fault. They made laws that the LNP won't follow. I suspect he knows the mess is getting closer to the Federal LNP's door. Maybe they should all be deselected.
No it will be a matter of when the likes of Rinehart no longer have a lock on the direction the government takes.

We will now pay more for our use of coal fired electricity. Not just the cost of running the plants but in extra health care cost. More people die because of pollution then from automobile accidents. 


Be interested to know which papers you are talking about because I didn't get that impression at all.

Main impression was that Abbott was  cut off at the pass by Obama, China and Japan regarding climate change.

While they thought it was a good idea regarding the growth target US papers were saying Obama would have buckley's getting the Congress to agree to a crack down on tax evasion of big companies.

I think you are reading only what you want to, a very unrealistic approach to take.

I agree and so do the Australian people it seems. Labor is now in front on the primary vote and 11 pts ahead on the two pp.

While I am less then enthusiastic about Labor Abbott has put himself in an even deeper hole.

Imagine saying Australia was nothing but bush when the English first arrived.

"embrace it" ... this isn't a love in this is suppose to be a business meeting. And we Australians are some of the share holders.

I'll applaud if they do their job and help grow jobs not the profits of big business.

Do you seriously think the members of the G20 care what the Australian media thinks?

Then you go on to say the media  "Pre Empting" the discussion. Where did you pull that thought from?

The issues to be discussed had been hammered out long before these guys even arrived.

You are so hell bent on protecting Abbott that you can't seem to see the climate change through the smoke. 

THE most important issue is getting leaders together talking. There isn't one topic that isn't complex having facets that will impact on their countries in one way or another so they should be careful what they do or agree to do.

This isn't all about Abbott it is about leaders trying to find common ground. They don't give two hoots what it means for the LNP or Abbott's popularity, nor should they.

TS, did you bother to read the article?

We are talking about Tony Abbott, the present PM of Australia. Do you really think he is up to such a task?
As noted we have the leaders of the top economies in the world and Abbott is all 'shirt fronting' Putin. That worked a treat didn't it?

Putin feels so afraid he sends in more troops to the Ukraine and a flotilla of Russian ships to Australia.

First off he didn't "shirt front" anyone.

In the world of adults, which Abbott is now dancing in, the end product is achievement. What did he gain other then your praise?



Spot on jock, maybe they still have one of Monty Python's killer bunnies still about.

You think the Brits would give us a lend of one?


Have you looked at the skies over China's cities? What makes you think it is not in China's interest to clear those skies?

It may not because they are worried about climate change but they aren't as stupid as Australians they understand the gases from burning coal is killing their people.

The two largest polluters in the world try to reach an agreement to restrict their emissions and this is all you have to say?

Tell me exactly when you heard the USA and China sign an agreement to cut their carbon pollution.

Because I suspect like most other things you say that is a lie.


Might not be advocating it but it could well head that way.

NATO is not showing any signs of going to combat and the USA has enough on its hands as it is without really 'shirt-fronting' Russia.

This all needs to play out further before harsher steps are taken. Keep up the pressure but think hard before you act and mean it when you do.

Agreed.That is part of the over all problem. 

The smart ones, the ones that are really a threat, will know how to avoid the government collecting information on them. 

Us dirty unwashed will be the ones that are at risk of both big business or government overreach.Futile endeavour indeed but not just because the increase in population is not mentioned. Futile because we have a government and indeed a people that deny there is an environmental problem at all.

Before the turn of the 20 century there were what around 1 billion people. Now we are up to what 7 billion? 

To even suggest that this increase in population isn't going to increase pollution is childish. To deny that burning coal in large part causes pollution is again, childish, just look at China as a worst case example.

But comments to come will of course deny the problem or say it is overstated or say well maybe there is but what can we do.

Yea, the adults are in charge all right.



Controlling the population will not end pollution but it sure would help decrease it and yes it took awhile before the penny dropped.

Don't think that is totally fair 'who... ' the point that fewer people means less pollution should be obvious.

Doesn't mean we aren't causing harm but just less harm.

So an argument that goes like discourage population growth until one gets a handle on resolving our pollution levels is, in my opinion, fair enough.

It would be considered a step not a total answer.


Interesting points "who..." thanks for the clarification.

The bottom line is do you want to destroy what is around you or not. 

Polluting has a cost, a hefty one. Not addressing the problem doesn't make that cost go away it just puts it onto the shoulders of the next generation.

I'm of the school that if you cause the problem you try to fix the problem.




China and the US just signed an agreement to cut their carbon pollution.

These are the two largest emitters in the world and this means nothing to you?

I didn't see anything mature about the faces Abbott was making behind Putin's back for the sake of the cameras. 

Abbott is an embarrassment.  He should let the only adult in his cabinet, Bishop, do the heavy lifting while he just stands back and learns a thing or two.

It is a matter of degrees isn't it?

I haven't seen any photos of Bishop pulling faces behind other world leaders.

And to be honest she has handled the downing of that plane well as could  be expected without making a fool of herself.


Australia sucked into the middle Eastern black hole.

How obvious does it have to be supporters of this war that there is no real plan, no goal, with no exit strategy.

Hasn't the US drawn Australia into enough of these messes for you to learn from the past?

Bye bye ever having a budget surplus because without raising taxes to pay for this conflict it will continue to just siphon every spare dollar into just a few more troops because there will be lights in the tunnel. The trouble will be those lights will not be from an exit but from an on coming train.

Why would you say such a silly thing?

I was against the last invasion of Iraq, I was against the invasion of Afghanistan. I am against the USA trying to sort out the world's problems. 

If anyone should be doing anything it should be the UN.I suspect your analysis is way too simplistic.

How many of your mates from the right use the services of these sex workers? 

In short I see no reason to make such work illegal. Just set up safe secure areas for these people to work and stop trying to interfere in what people do in their spare time.

I thought that was the core conservative mantra?Russia's gas exports will do what? You should keep better tabs on what the European countries are doing to help themselves get out from under Russia's 'gas' thumb.

Europe has woken up and are sourcing energy from as far away as Australia. They've learned not to trust the bear.

As long as Putin is in charge there will be considerable restraints on their relationships.

If China and Japan can overcome their hostilities I'll grow wings and fly. Do you know anything about these two countries histories?

Japan is tied to the USA and is highly unlikely to ever loosen those ties.

As for the USA god knows what will happen there but it wasn't the USA that fell apart during the cold war and it wasn't the USA whose economy is still in the doldrums.  

Is it a mess? Yep but it is still doing better then Russia and or Europe or in fact most of the rest of the world.

there are way too many ifs to foretell the future only to say it will not be what you imagined, it never is.



There was a list of wars that the USA has fought over the last 200 years and there were a heck of a lot of them in other countries.

Should they try and be the world's policeman? Probably not. 

Should there be a world's policeman? Probably should. But who would you trust?




You do realise that the Abbott government has drastically cut the funding to ASIC, don't you?

With evidence mounting into the amount of money from big businesses being shifted overseas to avoid paying taxes one would have thought an increase to the funding of such a body was necessary.

I am all for going after corruption but you use the words "probably more likely to be corrupt". How would you really know unless you sent the legal minds after both sides. I guess I am especially thinking of the construction industry in this case.

Then there are the Federal politicians? Where is a federal ICAC body? These guys rules are so loose you could drive a union through them.

And the churches. How many cases of child abuse do we have to have before we regulate them? There was even a case where the church and the police appeared to be in cahoots covering up child abuse.

The problem is this is largely a political exercise.

Totally agreed but we won't see any similar standards placed on them will we?

We never looked into how we ended up in Iraq. Or what horrors are really going on at the different asylum seeker detention centres. 

I have no doubt that there corrupt unions and that they should be dealt with but what about the pollies? Or for that matter the churches and other groups that have shown a shocking level of child abuse?

Abbott is trying to score political points and he should be hammered for such an abuse of his power.

So POP you want to go after union corruption but ignore the corruption obvious in big business, the church, and politicians?

Go after all corrupt organisations. To do anything else would be hypocritical. 
Yep but it doesn't suit Abbott to find the corruption in big business, or the Catholic church, the conduction of wars, or in politics.

Anywhere in fact that there is power over another human being. I would take the issue of union corruption a lot more seriously if the search wasn't so politically motivated.

So take a stand Ben. Are you for clearing up corruption any other places as well as unions?

Gosh don't tell the LNP faithful. They only see corruption in unions.

And beside if Abbott went after corporate corruption where would he get the donations he needs for the next election?



Labor started the hearings into child abuse, which Abbott is ignoring.

Hear the one where the Catholic Church and the police were in cahoots covering up child abuse claims?

Right after you open your eyes and demand a government that treats all corruption as a problem not just those that embarrass one group.
"I would take the issue of union corruption a lot more seriously if the search wasn't so politically motivated."

Did you read this bit?

So are you happy to turn a blind eye to political corruption? 



Name one LNP member that is not in crawling to big business?

I have no idea which Labor member was in a union or not, the point is to stop corruption no matter where it is found and the perfect place to really start is with a federal ICAC. With a very strict code of ethics.

My key point regarding corruption is that it is found ... "Anywhere in fact that there is power over another human being"I was obviously speaking for myself.

I am interested in stopping not just union corruption but big business and all organisations that have and still do have a part in the care of children.

Once again you misread an article that points out issues you don't want discussed.

Yes there is union corruption but point me to an organisation that doesn't have corruption.

This focus on only unions is political. We should demand an enquiry into a wide range of areas, the second Iraq war for one, Federal politicians, any group that deals with the care of vulnerable children (there have been an almost endless list of groups that have abused children). Where is Abbott's focus on these groups?

Abbott is using his authority to go after unions because it suits his political agenda, that is the problem with this hunt for corruption.

No problem investigating unions but I do have a problem when political, business and church corruption gets ignored.

Don't you think corruption on those levels impacts on the poor as well? Or would that upset your rusted on LNP ethics?No problem investigating unions but I do have a problem when political, business and church corruption gets ignored.

Don't you think corruption on those levels impacts on the poor as well? Or would that upset your rusted on LNP ethics?What sort of comment is this suppose to be?
One would damn well expect that any trade agreement we make with any country requires their goods to meet our standards in health and other areas.
Making that snide little comment about the Greens was childish.

The Greens are a minor party. They may try to throw what little weight they have around but so what? The topic is a free trade agreement so why not focus on what is really the issue, are we as a country going to get the best deal we can or not? Until we see the details it is impossible to know.
For me the key issue is will all things be reciprocal, if they can buy land here can we buy it there and so on.

Doesn't mean they didn't benefit by the efforts of the feminist.

Seems a mean spirited to have a go at women that fight for equal opportunity when sitting in a seat of power.


I was wondering when this would hit the fan.

Being a man and looking at women try to deal with the question of feminism leaves me a bit bemused.

I don't understand what the fight is all about. Surely women want to improve their lot and they should be willing to stand up for that effort.

Women spending time pulling each others hair out over who is or isn't or what should or shouldn't be done or said is rather silly. 

Bishop I guess deserves to be acknowledged for her achievements why not just be gracious why have a whack at other women?

I really don't think women's problem is being the position taken by women of the left but of the restrictions placed on them by other men AND women.

A rather mean and nasty comment. Why are you blaming that on Whitlam?
It was the USA that left these people in the lurch.

So you are upset that one empty plane left Vietnam? That proves to you he didn't respect the Vietnamese? 

And after three years in government after making massive changes in Australia he didn't get Australia involved in East Timor?

What is your opinion regarding Abbott and his refusal to take in more asylum seekers? Do you hold the same standards for him?


Doesn't matter how many places you have at a university if people don't have the money to take the courses Peter.

There seems like a lot of re-writing of history here.

Australian troops are recorded as having left in January 1973. The communist overran the South in January 1975.

What few refugees that left after the down fall were reported to have made their way out to countries including Australia.

There was no mass migration out of Vietnam until 1978. 

It looks to me Bev like you are just looking for an excuse to have a shot at the guy over nothing.



that's it, this is all the LNP supporters have against this guy?

It was my country that left the Vietnamese in the lurch. And I am not terribly proud of it.

Look at which party join the USA in a pointless war and you might find it is the same one joining the USA once again."taking wealth from those who work and innovate" ... and steal, lie, cheat, rob, take overseas accounts to hide their wealth. Yep that lot. They have added a lot to society.That the banks after just declaring record profits are kicking up against these rules is a bit 'rich'.

While I question a lot of what Hockey does on this point I would agree with him, banks should tough up and stop asking for help when times get rough.


What you call socialism runs deep in every big business. They will go to any means to hide their profits while at the same time gaining whatever government assistance they can get.

Don't think competition is really an answer.

The big end of town either pitches in or the country struggles to find an answer to the revenue shortfall.

Sending ones money overseas to avoid tax might well be legal but it doesn't add to the heavy lifting.

good luck, how would either party get enough kick "gifts" to send their kids to posh schools?I agree. 

Its bad enough we send these guys off to an un-winnable war but then to insult them not only with the miserly pay offer, plus have them fund their own life insurance, plus to learn that there are some 3,000 returned service men living on the streets some with families is beyond the pale.

We should all be shirt fronting Abbott on this issue no matter which party we vote for.

Go Lambie...What does it matter what their present pay level is?

How are you going to compare a position that requires you to go out and kill someone because your government says so with any other profession?

You might find a soldier in England is paid less, so what? That's England this is Australia. Should we look at how much lawyers are paid overseas and then decide what they should receive here?

The information we do have is that inflation is around 3% and they have been given 1.5% pay increase. I am not great at maths but even I can figure out that the money offered isn't going to keep up with the cost of living.

Now if they were a regular government employee you could make a case for that, I guess, but they aren't. They are in a highly stressful job which costs them dearly physically and emotionally.

It has been reported that some 3,000 return service men are living on the streets. Unable to cope after getting out of service they end up unemployed.

Now you might think that is just their bad luck but I for one don't. We send them into situation that break them we are the ones responsible to fix them.

Not keeping up with inflation is obviously a step backwards. It wouldn't matter a hoot what their pay is now.

I hope Hockey sticks to his guns on this issue because it will be the end of us having to see his puss again.
"To do that I need to know what the base is to know whether it is acceptable." ... why you? Why is it so important that YOU understand? Bob made a good point and you just ignore it. Abbott isn't saying they aren't worth more money just that they don't have it to give. 

Well that is a nonsense. Buy one less sub, one less airplane, have Abbott stay at home for a year, cut out Hockey's cigars. These people are risking their lives. Not only are they given only a 1.5% pay increase but they have to sacrifice 6 days of their holiday. 

People fight for what they believe in and as far as this issue goes I support Lambie.

Suggested savings could be found in limiting the allowances of MPs. Build one fewer jets, one less sub, end one more loop hole for the rich, or keep Abbott at home for a year.

I would love for Labor to show a backbone and support with Lambie on this issue but I doubt they will.

Labor have become little more then Abbott's lapdog.

I outlined several areas of savings so instead of having a go at me over being a supposed supporter of Labor look at THE issue. Finding the money to pay these guys at the very least a CPI increase.

I might add the concept of cutting out Hockey's cigars but that might be a step too far.

So you support the government's pay offer to our soldiers.

You figure that shirt fronting Palmer and Abbott over this pay offer is the effort of a two year old?

So you also are against shirt fronting Abbott over the pay increase to our soldiers?

I want more non-team players like Lambie.



Lambie may not be a faithful PUP but she is a faithful Australian.

It is hard to imagine anyone from any side of the party line not being disgusted by the pay offer to our soldiers.

If that was the only issue that would be bad enough but it isn't.

There has been two recent articles one talking about the trouble our soldiers are having finding an insurance company to fund their own life insurance, in case they die in battle. Then another stating that some 3,000 are living on the street.

The article stated that "returning Australian diggers are suffering from epidemic rates of homelessness, with some being forced to sleep in cars." 

Enough is enough.

While the ending is the same the topic the pay and conditions of our soldiers is different.

Do you really not understand?People working at their desk filing speeches from the PM is one thing it is totally another when you are talking about our fighting men and women.

There have been numerous stories lately on how these guys are ending up on the streets after their service because they can't cope with the stress of what they've done.

And yet here we have a situation where the government is telling them that they aren't worth a CPI increase and you support that idea.

Am I mad? Yu bet. I don't support the war but I do support the people we send over there to fight.

It is an insult to these guys plain and simple.

When someone is correct in their "whinges" then they should be supported and loudly.

I don't care if the other government employees get a pay increase but I care a whole lot that our soldiers get at the very least a CPI increase.

When they march in parades we clap and tell them what hero's they are but the country can't find the money to give them a CPI increase? Garbage.

.

I disagree with Lambie on many issues but on this one she is spot on.

Her main saving grace is her openness and her willingness to take the flack that goes along with holding values.

A trait other politicians could learn from.Your broad generalisation illustrates the problem.

You assume that all Muslims except and indeed embrace Barbary and they just don't.

Those that are trapped in places like Syria and Gaza are literally fighting for their very lives. Unable to leave they face their rather stark choices and some do fall into the world you paint what would you do?

But an overwhelming majority of those that have escaped just want to live a normal life.

Making wide sweeping statements don't help.We are talking about a country with what 3 million people.

That is also hit it seems on a regular basis with devastating earthquakes.

For their size the Kiwis do their fair share. Why try to downgrade their efforts? 


I would add to the "root causes of extremism" the divide between Shia and Sunni. And not helped by the intervention of both the US, mainly, and Russia and very small part played by the UK and China.

Its not simple. 

Yes as stated the Sunnis and Shia's have been killing themselves for generations but it doesn't help when outside countries try and exploit the oil that is in their areas.

There are many reasons for the present carnage not least of all their religion.Discourage yes but the law seems to indicate a woman could be jailed for having a drink. Seems rather over the top but maybe we aren't getting the full story.

prosecuted if they drink ... wow, if one is overweight could we also be prosecuted for eating? 

Yes I know a bit of a stretch but so is it to arrest a women for having a drink.When the PM himself tells us he lies and yet he gets himself elected telling lies what does one expect?

And yet we will see Abbott supports jumping to his defence. 

Is Murdoch happy now? 
So are you going to have a go at Abbott for his development of this law?

As far as I am concerned Labor's support of going to war in Iraq and these laws snuffing out our freedoms has caused me to look at other options.

But how about LNP supporters? Once unhappy with anything Gillard did to try and limit the freedom of the Murdoch press are you lot going to stand up to the complete silencing of the entire media?

Shorten showing a backbone is like asking Abbott not to lie.Common sense has nothing to do with laws. You seem to be able to twist yourself into what ever required position to defend the indefensible.


The law is flawed, it is a travesty and Labor should be condemned as well for having anything to do with it.You said first off "The author falls into the common trap of lawyers. He's gotten so focused on the law, he forgot to account for common sense."

You now say, "common sense isn't quite the right term", a law is a law the extent of its meaning is tested in the courts. Neither common sense or ordinary meanings have nothing to do with the law.

You once again too quickly jump to the defence of Abbott without thinking things through. 

Both the LNP and Labor should be ashamed of themselves.

Interesting article, thanks.

Looking at the wold's economic situation is enough to make ones head spin.

God knows what is really going on in China. The repeated chord that its housing market is a real problem seems to have fallen on deaf ears in China. It wasn't al that long ago that there were complaints about prices dropping 40% in certain markets. Not a problem now.

Then you have Europe and Japan. As I understand it they are by their QE's exporting their deflation, at the same time we see Australia's incomes not keeping up with inflation and yet our housing prices keep rising.

But then we have the USA's economy being called a powerhouse of the world again. With a debt to GDP and unemployment rate better then ours.

I just don't see how this is all going to work out without a lot more grief. 

I try to keep up to date on what is going on in the world's economy so my tongue was in my cheek when I wrote my comment.

The events impacting on the global economy has gotten much more complex as issues such as Russia, the Ukraine, the Middle East, climate change, the rise and rise of China and soon India and maybe Indonesia, the potential failure of the BRICS grouping etc. are played out.

So no I don't think it is anyone spinning anything just a complex world getting more complex and e getting older.


"6,000 years for it to be attached to suitcases, and thus become really useful." you are kidding right?

Yes there are major changes happening but this has been going on for quite awhile.

In do agree with your comment that at least in the USA a major change for the worse happen under Reagan but then look at Australia during the same period and one sees a Labor government dragging Australia into the 20th century.

Technology I believe will be a two edged sword. It will give as well as take away. Education is the key to helping society adjust to these changes.

Today human rights are in crisis all across the middle east and yet you focus on Egypt, one of the few countries that is even somewhat settled, why?

Look at Libya, Syria, Iraq, and every other country where one regime was replaced by another.  The voices that are gaining power is groups like ISIL. Are they the sort of groups you want in power?

You are writing history Dove. The Doc is correct.

And when one looks at the middle east one sees a string of counties that are no where near as free as Egypt.

South of Egypt you have Yemen, supporters of ISIL, you also have Kuwait, The Sudan, Oman and Somalia. All of who contribute to some extent to the upheaval in the region

Though the main two governments vying for supremacy  are the Sunni and Shia governments of Saudi Arabia and Iran.

The fantasy here is that Egypt for all its failings deserves condemnation while these others are ignored.

The question is why focus on Egypt?

Other countries considered part of the Middle East include Yemen, the Sudan, Kuwait, Oman, Somalia and even Ethiopia. N one of which is anything close to a free and open society.

All of which have some part to paly in supporting radical groups across the entire region. 

In the scheme of things Egypt looks good.Lachlan and Bren, the question remains why have shot at the one functioning government in the entire middles east. Look all around Egypt and one sees chaos caused by the inability of the people in theses regions to deal with concept of democracy.

On a scale of 1 to 10 Egypt is about a 5. Look to the west of Egypt at Libya, what has happened to that country ... chaos. Look at not only Iraq and Syria but Lebanon, chaos. 

Would you rather have the sort of system that operates in Saudi Arabia or Iran?  

Egypt is not good but in this case it is better then the alternatives.

THE thorn of the middle east, but it does function after a fashion.Point taken but I don't really see the connection between Fawkes and Abbott's call for a mature discussion on the GST.

So what is there to comment on? 

Why the Tory Boy went off on his tangent and why it was allowed to be posted confuses me as well.  

But then how can you have a mature discussion about a tax as flawed as the GST.

A tax drawn up by the federal level of government to supposedly replaces taxes on a state level which weren't repealed and then every year open to argument on its distribution. Its the sort of thing you'd expect in Alice and Wonderland.

Besides this a discussion on the GST is putting the horse before the cart. First define what level of government is responsible for what services then let them be free to find the money to pay for it, without the interference of the other levels of government.

APM your comment is even more nonsensical then Tory Boy's.

If the leader that you support says he wants to have an adult discussion on an issue but his supporters say the opposition is not capable of such a discussion where does that leave us?

I'll try again ... what does that have to do with having a mature debate on issues like the GST?If you really wanted to see the problem look in the mirror. 

To deny that Abbott has a long and inglorious history of lying and outlining serious issues in catch phrases is to miss the core problem with having a mature debate.

How is there any room for discussion when Abbott talks about you either being part of "Team Australia" or being the enemy of Australia?

If you want to really engage with people you talk like an adult.

The booing of Abbott was wrong. But the thought that a man with the sort of history of Abbott can some how hold a mature discussion on any topic is also wrong.

You get out what you put in and Abbott should not expect anything else.

And look at what he said to get elected. Good on him for his work in the community that doesn't make him anyone to trust.

No he didn't Forrest. If anything he was having a go at politicians of all persuasions.

The big problem with your comments is that anytime there is even the slightest hint of anything uncomplimentary  about Abbott you hair stands on end and you just stop reading or thinking what might be the point.

How many nice things have you ever said about Gillard or Rudd? And you expect nice things to be said about Abbott?

The entire country needs to take a deep breathe which I think is the point of this article because we are heading towards a melt down.

How can pone hold a mature debate when the person defining the topic has already ruled out certain issues for discussion?

That there should be a mature debate about not only taxes but the roles of different levels of government is a given.

But how can that happen when one side has ruled out taxing mining companies or those that pollute? And then call for a review of states rights while ignoring the important issue of the place of council's in the entire scheme of things?

For gosh sakes yes lets have an adult debate but leave everything on the table and have every level of government, and opposing sides have a free hearing.

A constitutional convention would be the best approach.

But good luck getting anything agreed upon.



When Abbott starts acting like an adult and speaks to issues like one then we can start to have a mature debate.

If you have bothered to notice even ex-liberals are having a shot at him for his handling of the GST issue. Their main complaint is that he didn't bother to first off brief his own side on this issue.

The opposition reacted very similar as did members of the Liberal party. They questioned how one could have a mature debate when he didn't even bother discussing the topic with his own party BEFORE he made the announcement.

If he can't get his own side to support his ideas how does he expect anyone else to join him?




Surely when Abbott calls for a "mature debate" people are laughing their heads off, at least those that remember his time in opposition and his promises during the election. 

The man has no record of being capable of such an act. With no past history no one believes him this time. He has cried wolf way too many times to be taken seriously now.






Not much happening in the area of the legal hallways Ben?

Abbott gets back what he has given. If you bother to read the responses of Abbott followers above you would note their point of view as well. And yet you make no comment on their heckling of the possibility of a mature debate.

Look in the mirror mate.


Best look at how his own party is reacting, none of the Liberal state leaders are supporting the idea nor has Costello or Reith. 

If he can't get these people on sides how does he or you for that matter expect the opposition to support him?


"a number of reforms" ... are you serious? The man redesigned the entire country.

And yes they could have but they didn't repeal his efforts.

Your total lack of respect shows you for what you are.

Thanks and well said.What? The putting in place of a police state?

The top brass of the Australian Federal Police" should not be "going in to bat" for the government. They are there to carry out orders not pass judgement on those orders at least not in public.

It is not now nor should it ever be the case where a police chief stands up with a PM to promote a police state, which is in fact what has happened.

We the public will now have every comment we make every site we visit put on record for the police to scan over to look for any criminal activity.

Now you might have total faith in the judgement in the police but I don't. Too many times they have abused their authority or just made bad decisions and god help you if you are on the wrong end of such an event.

What an uptight world when such recollections result in such angst. 

Do people really think that those under 16 have no sexual desires or questions?  


You obviously have a problem with nations getting together to talk about issues. Why is that?

Australia like other nations sign treaties all the time, its how thing get done. Australia might be an island but what happens across the globe does impact on us none the less.



The G20 is not a state on its own. Agreements reached are done so by elected representatives of their governments. This is the very same approach used whenever a state makes agreements with another, such as FTAs.

You seem to find some sinister plot in these meetings and I cannot understand your logic.

If you are against such meetings then next time you vote look for a candidate that doesn't want to be part of such a gathering.

Personally I'd rather have these guys meet and try and talk through issues then go off to yet another war.


You'd rather leaders not act like adults and try to find a way through issues of potential mutual benefit?

Interesting article as per normal Greg, gosh you love graphs.

With all our wealth we are still too poor to give our soldiers a real pay increase AND life insurance once they go into battle. Amazing. 

It nasty enough to jump on the young unemployed and the elderly but for gosh sake give the soldiers a decent pay increase and don't have them fork out for life insurance when they go into another of the LNP's endless wars.


Ah but they don't do they. They join out of patriotism. The government doesn't tell them when they join that they are going to abandon them in the crunch.


Seeing that the people that hold most of Japan's debt are in fact living there kind of precludes their closing up the Japanese shop.I wasn't here during the Whitlam years so  my views are as an outsider.

First off I could never understand why he was sacked. He was elected and should have been allowed to serve his term.

Second no matter what you thought of the man and his ideas he did achieve an awful lot most of it better then bad. What he didn't do, from what I understand is find a way to pay for things.

Third, I do believe that the US had something to do with his removal, we as a nation tend to be like that.

Fourth democracy both here and in the USA is showing strain and people are losing faith both here and in the US with what gets done and how. So I'd like to see some form of citizen council that looks hard at what is being done and ways to improve it and then for this group to take their ideas to a vote.

Enough really is enough.



You have a problem connecting with the rest of the world Ben?

How many dollars can you take to your grave?

We are a society, a group, not just you or me but a range of people with different values and ways of contributing. You want an every person for themselves country? The build really high walls around your 'castle'.

I suggest Australia should have gone the way of Norway and taxed the bejesus out of the mining companies. 

If you went through university in Australia to gain a degree in law your tuition was at least partly paid for by those dirty unwashed that you so despise Ben.

So that you can now earn money those same people could never dream of earning. And to help protect your income your profession limits the number of people that can enter it for the sole purpose of insuring you can charge whatever the market can bear.

Look in the mirror mateI was wondering when I'd see an article regarding the elections in the US.

The big problem for the Democrats is that those that tend to support them during Presidential elections don't tend to vote in these off year ones. Their second problem is there are more democratic senators up for re-election.  

Even so the polls are mixed with the best prediction for the Republicans being 51 senators and a slight decrease in the House. But if you thought Clive Palmer's party was like herding cats its a lot worse in the USA.

The old school Republicans are fighting the influence of the Tea Party. The Democrats are reported to be afraid of criticising the Republicans and the President is sitting there making great speeches but unable to make things happen.

It's not pretty, in fact its a mess.


Dictatorships also spring from the fear spread by an elected government.

How many more of your rights does the government have to take away before you become concern Zing?



These laws can be used to create an Australian version of '1984' all by saying the word terrorist. Every body then falls all over themselves to see what other personal freedom can be taken away.

What else needs to happen before the government becomes a totally closed shop able to look into every aspect of our lives when ever it wants for whatever reason it wants to create?

When does that become defined as totalitarianism? Will I get put in the clink because I blog anti government comments?

With these laws they could do that and know one would know.

800 coppers are needed to raid  a Muslin women's house early in the morning because she had a plastic sword.

Seems to me we are there.

I agree, but you better not make such comments after these laws are passed you could end up in jail.

Why do you think you'll have a choice?

Think of it as a chance to increase employment. How many people are you going to need to sift through all this information? Then think of the jails that will need to be built. The jailors needed to an them. Heck we'll have full employment in no time.


It has been said that the Australian voters never make a mistake. Maybe this is what a majority wanted.

I thought the reds under the beds in the USA during the 50's was bad. This is worse we really are in danger not from 17 year olds in Iraq but from our own government.





Agreed.

The problem is in the way he frames the issues.

Taxation is one debate but before we get there we need to know what responsibilities the different layers of government are first of going to be, is it going to remain council,  state and federal? And what are their responsibilities going to be. Only AFTER that is decided can we really talk about how is level is going to fund its activities.

The stupidity of the "Green Army' is that there is already in place a group of volunteers called LandCare that have been doing a great job for years. Now they want to let kids without a clue take over.
What is the sense?

Because the people I know in this group for years and have seen the quality of their work. They know the local issues and have a history. I suspect your view is tainted by your political views.

The 'Green Army' is a nonsense.

The rural area already has LandCare. A group of rural based people who have been doing the job for years.

You are right of course why even bother if people are going to be allowed to cut down the trees as fast as others are planted.

Have you ever seen an open cut coal mine?


I must admit I'd rather live under the 'western' view of things but that doesn't mean that there isn't a clash of civilisations happening.

What law are you abiding? A western law that isn't without its, lets be polite and say, quirks.

We let lending institutions charge simply outrageous rates to lend us money. They don't under Islam.  

We have in the past been the ones sponsoring either what we called crusades' or wars to stop the spread of non existent WMD.

We divided Arab countries into different 'states' to suit our view of how they should look without the least consideration for the people's history.

It we that plundered the oil rich states until they had enough and fought back.

Sorry it isn't all black and white and there are reasons for the present state of the Middle East and will be repercussions from our actions.

Hopefully you actually know the answer to the question you ask ... or ???

Look at the history especially of the last 200 years. It is the West that colonised much of the world leaving its "democratic" footprint, or trying to, where ever we, the West, went.

It is we, the West, that divided the Middles East up into incompatible nation states which are now part of the reason for the conflicts in that region.

You may not have thought about it when you voted but you and the others across the western world have tried to developed the world in our image, for, of course, the good of the non-western countries.

Try reading a history book and you might understand what the article is all about.


And a Federal ICAC is the one thing we need. Drives one crazy.



Put a tick before my name for the lottery system. I'm fed up with the present way things working.

I like the idea of the drawing of lots. At least then we won't be spoon fed the party that some media mongrel or is that mogul wants.

Probably won't happen for awhile but the present form of democracy has been dragged through the political mud and needs an overhaul.

The entire bill should be scrapped. It is rushed having been drafted in a state of panic. Not a good look for a democracy.
No headlines or votes in pushing the disease.These laws are a travesty. 

They are far more then just imperfect they are rushed, intrusive and an insult to one that believes in personal freedoms.

"devastating when our younger generation reaches retirement" ... it is devastating now, the kids don't have to wait until they  reach old age. They won't be able to retire anyway. Hopefully my wife and I can leave enough for the kids to ease their situation a bit but who knows what the world will look like in another 35 years.

"devastating when our younger generation reaches retirement" ... it is devastating now, the kids don't have to wait until they  reach old age. They won't be able to retire anyway. Hopefully my wife and I can leave enough for the kids to ease their situation a bit but who knows what the world will look like in another 35 years.

"Brand claims that the current system of party democracy is broken." ... well as far as I am concerned he is correct.

Personally I am disgusted by what we call democracy both here in Australia and the USA. And I see no one in this country willing to have a go at even trying to fix it.

I don't know what the answer is but I will by this guy's book to see what he has to say because I am looking for answers from any corner.



Nope.I am disgusted with all political parties, as I said.

I will be looking into those you mentioned at the next election. Who knows I might find someone of worth. Thanks for the ehads up.

Yes Keating had a really biting tongue and was down right cruel and nasty at times but at least he had some great ideas. 

Abbott is a Neanderthal in opposition and government with really bad ideas.

The issues mentioned are not that critical even the ETS. Something of that sort will be forced on Australia over the years by the rest of the world.

You want to put the budget in balance there are far better ways like getting foreign companies and some of the large big ones to actually pay some serious taxes. Then look at the tax concessions for the well off for starters.

But the situation at the present time not just here in Australia but also the USA is politically toxic between conservatives and liberals and that lays right at the feet of the conservatives from both countries.



Wake up John, we aren't being offered "reform" we are being offered what the minders of Abbott want.

I don't see why the measures you mentioned are inevitable. I suspect there are other ways of dealing with the finical needs of Australia.

Like getting corporations to actually pay taxes, the superannuation tax concessions  to high income earners  for starters.

I do agree that for the last five years politics in Australia have been a dirty mess, getting rid of Abbott would be a start but only for awhile.

It seems to me that Australians like a mean nasty leader. It seems to be in the DNA. That is why Shorten has little chance of becoming PM no matter how bad Abbott gets. Not only isn't Shorten mean enough he is boring. A major sin in Australia.


Google, Amazon, Starbucks, Apple need I say more? These corporation pay almost no tax and not just here in Australia.

Why do you think this issue is a big  item for the G20 talks?

Yes I know Australia has a large number of small businesses hence why I used the term "corporate". Do you ever try to read my comments or do you react as soon as you see my title?


I disagree. We must keep on fighting this sort of nonsense.

That Labor has jumped on board is really the depressing point.

Australians ... afraid of 17 year olds with guns, who would have thought?


Peter so you are quaking with fear over  plastic sword-bearing mums of Lakemba are you?

800 coppers putting their lives on the line to bring this lady to Australian justice, makes ones heart swell with pride. 

I reckon I have a greater chance of being hit by a meteorite then being harmed by an Islamic plastic sword.

Zing, I understand that plastic swords might look rather dangerous, and that 17 year olds half way around the world might make an Abbott supporter fear for their lives but most people that have reach an age over 21 have seen enough idiots to know who are and who are not a real threat.

I guess having grown up in Chicago and seen braggarts before I tend not to be afraid of kids half way around the world that say they want to kill me.

I suspect I'll probably die by choking on a peanut. Should I ask Abbott to ban peanuts?



We are not talking about an Australian card we are talking about an invasion of our privacy for no good reason.

And that Labor supported it says little about their leader that can be printed on the drum.Makes one want to tear out what is left of one's hair.

Read down a bit to where there are comments bagging the ABC for writing 'another' bias article against the Abbott government.

What hope do we have for an adult discussion on this issue?




You do realise this is the executive summary of the Prime Ministerial Task Group on Emissions Trading report, released on May 31, 2007?


"masquerading behind seemingly innocent, trite rubbish about spin bowling"  ... yep that about sums up conservative governments.


It is in fact a report done for the Howard government and published by ABC.

Read the article for gosh sake.

You do realise this report was written for the Howard government in 2007?

And that Howard went to the 2007 election in support of a ETS?

So are you now saying that Howard was a fool?


Let me get this straight, its the ABC's fault that Murdoch has used his power to thump on the heads of the poor and disadvantaged?

That actually makes sense to you? Abbott voter right?


As the media emperor who helped cause the problem I understand perfectly the hypocrisy of the man.The other question that comes to mind is why Hockey gave the keynote role of a G20 forum to Murdoch?

Political payback maybe?

Lind of like the LNP's dropping of the case for almost a billion dollars of taxes supposedly owed by the News Media?

No it wasn't, it was made after the election.

THAT was my point. The ATO stopped perusing him after Abbott was elected.

"Murdoch seems genuinely alert to a deepening social divide and the gathering dysfunction that straddles it." ... I doubt it and even if he is he is probably planning on how he could make a quid out of the situation.

The very thought that the man who has done his utmost to destroy democracy in the USA and Australia would actually become aware of the harm he has caused boggles the mind.

Why? Does hearing the truth of the man bother you?

Ah, gee that's too bad. Tell the unemployed youth that Abbott wants to starve your concern.Why not?


Not just Pyne guys but have you seen Hockey and Morrison in full flight?

When are the LNP going to let the adults out?

Agreed, isn't just a little bit ironic that men they received free university education are the ones throwing it away?

Hawke started the rot now the LNP are taking it even further.

fees costing nothing vs. everything are a very important issue, I would say vital.

I see health care and education as being core infrastructure and what they cost determines who gets to use them and who doesn't.

I'd much rather have free education then another fleet of fighter jets or more submarines. Though an fee structure that is based on income or wealth would be a starting point.

Yes, Labor started the idea, then under Hawke started bring fees back into the equation now the LNP's have finished it off.

Coming from the USA I thought Meidcare was the greatest thing and I still do.

And now when the US is trying to place something like it into the US society Australia is trying to undermine it.

It is a great plan and should not be touched unless all sides of politics agree there is a better way.

"My own father had more health $ spent on him in the last 2 weeks of his life, than his preceding 80 odd years " so are you saying that as he was dying he was just getting things done because they were free?

The elderly and the chronically ill will be the ones getting it between the eyes. Australia as the richest median wealth country in the world can afford the few extra dollars.

If they really want to spend money on research use the money they are going to get from the sale of Medicare. Put it in a fund and draw on the interest that the fund makes.

Hawke was wrong. Education and health are the KEY infrastructure needs of the country.

Ditch the subs and jet fighters. That should pay for the real needs of Australians.

I reckon.

Ironic that these fat cats who protested against extra uni fees when they were going through are now wanting to increase the cost to that service as well."If the Greens and Labor really are concerned about cost of living, they should support the re-indexation of fuel excise in return for a say on how this revenue is spent," ... I don't see why that follows at least for Labor, the Greens ... well maybe.

The tax is minor in the scheme of things though when the retail rice of petrol starts to go up because of demand and not supply well then it may become a real issue.

Abbott did call it an environment measure 'on steroids' or words to that affect but I think he was just trying to grab headlines in the US.

If anything it is the 'how' this tax is being put in place, speaking for myself, not the why.

Did you or others notice the ABC poll result on this issue?

Usually there are around 2,000 votes cast at the most 5,000. This time there are over 11,000 votes and surprise, surprise some 56% are in favour of the bypassing of the Senate and supportive of the bill.

Does one think that just maybe Abbott's 32 spin doctor have been at work rigging the poll?

The biggest worry I have about this government is how they continually sidestep oversight. 

The truth is Abbott cannot be trusted and yet we are off to engage in an endless war under his direction. Very scary.Better not tell that to the people of China.

They are up in arms over the pollution levels and the government is responding to that outrage. Yes they will be using newer less polluting coal fired plants but they are also making a big push towards renewables.

Better not tell that to the people of China.

They are up in arms over the pollution levels and the government is responding to that outrage. Yes they will be using newer less polluting coal fired plants but they are also making a big push towards renewables.

The Germans plan to have 80% of their energy produced by renewable sources by 2050.

What does that tell you?Difficult question. Do we care about things like animal cruelty or do we care about making a lot of money.


Well you see I have a lot more information about what farmers do or don't do then you Ben.

First off I've lived in the country so I know quite a few farmers.

Second my wife is an accomplished vet with some considerable knowledge in this area.

So I will repeat ... for those slow of mind ... it does come down to animal cruelty or making money.

In a choice between allowing cruelty and making money I'll come down on the side of stopping cruelty but then I'm not a lawyer. 

Because other countries are worse doesn't make what we do OK.

The entire process is money driven, they aren't shipping the cattle for a holiday. The farmers make more selling cattle live then frozen, its as simple as that. Because if they weren't making more money they wouldn't do it.

"emphatically we care about animal cruelty" ... really?

The reality is some do and some don't. Seen too much of the cruelty to believe otherwise.

The reality is you can be one man's terrorist and another hero, just depends on where you are sitting.

However, what I don't understand about this is first why the media gives 17 year olds the oxygen to become hero's and why the government falls into a security heap whenever they see one of these children on TV.

Seems all we are doing is encouraging kids or the mentally unstable to try and get their 15 minutes of fame.

What are you ranting about?

First off you have no idea how my 'side' of politics feels about capitalism.

Second where in my comment did I refer to the impact of capitalism on the issue of kids joining ISIL?

You continue to jump to crazy assumptions based on nothing but your own view of the world.



At the bottom line it is. If I go and fight say for Israel and bomb the bejesus out of  Arabs am I a hero or a terrorist?

Same thing here. I, we, will think these kids are terrorists because we deeply disagree with their views, but they are heroes to those that hold their point of view.

Did you bother reading the article 'a happy'? Or are you into a rant despite the points made?

Never let a chance go by to defend the honour of Mr Abbott.

Agreed and yet when I raised this issue on Drum Abbott supporters told me all I had to do was go to a site and read about the bills. As if ...

Senator Leyonhjelm is going up in my estimation. He seems one of the few that actually has some interest in what impact these laws will have.

That Albanese has joined him is a good sign.

These laws could well be in place when my grandchildren get to my age and yet both LNP and some Labor supporters are just letting them go through to the keeper without real oversights.

We invaded Iraq to get rid of al Qaeda, though they weren't really a force there and now we've ended up with a group far worse. We are throwing away democracy out of fear and no one has really made a concerted effort to explain why. All we get are cute slogans.



Your comment doesn't surprise me . Not having read or comprehending what the article was all about totally missed the comment ... "Academics with expertise in national security legislation have told me that even for people who live and breathe this stuff, the legislation was incredibly opaque and the significance of some of the big concepts within it entirely unclear."

If they can't figure it out how is anyone else suppose to?
The experts admit to not understanding the laws. 

I admit if they can't grasp all they can mean how is anyone else?

Yes laws can be amended but not before they do harm.

We invaded Iraq to get fuel? Well that didn't work out to well and why didn't anyone tell Howard?


Labor Fan Club? You must be confused. First off Labor signed off on this bill so I would have thought anyone supporting Labor would have agreed with the contents of the bill.

Read the article Forrest. That is how I formed my opinion.

And I kick Labor for this almost as hard as I kick the LNP.

As I said I am more inclined to support Senator Leyonhjelm and he ain't Labor.



How can we the dirty unwashed hope to understand a bill and its ramifications if the experts can't make heads or tails on what it might mean?


Did you bother to read the article Forrest? The bill is reported to have massive ramifications that will keep lawyers busy for years.

Labor failed in their responsibilities to just let it go through to the keeper.

Oh and which other legislation or UN conventions are you talking about?

You keep pulling things out of your hat which do not relate to the issue at hand. This time it is a very complex piece of legislation that law maker themselves say they don't understand and you just seem to totally miss that point.

I agree to a point but maybe another approach is to have the states only do what they gain revenue for.

Having worked for a council I know that they complain bitterly over 'cost shifting' from the state to them. I also know that the states complain of the same thing from the federal government. 

So why not look at responsibilities of each level and limit them to just the areas they are best suited to deaf with.

Council's are best at the three 'R's' as they call them rates, rubbish and roads. I don't know what states might be good at, probably not much but if we just focus their responsibilities and them let the federal government deal with education, health, and other issues we want delivered on an equal basis.

It is still a regressive tax. Its not about class envy its about fairness. That is not important to you but it has been ever since my arrival in Australia some 30 odd years ago an issue that is important to Australians, so why don't you just get over it and try an have an adult discussion on the issue of tax.

Though the impact on the poorest might be mitigated by some form of tax concessions. And as you probably know there are many ways around people actually paying the GST, especially builders.

One of the things that irks me about the GST is the way the states have a bun fight every year over how much they get.

I'd agree that an adult discussion on TAX, all taxes, needs to be had. It is too bad Labor didn't include the GST in its Henry Tax Paper.

Probably much the same as Shorten will do with it now.

Every time they buy something they pay a tax. 

Be an adult and focus on the real issue here, a fair taxation system that provides the services the country needs.

Fairness is at the very centre of the debate on taxes.

If we were only to tax say those making over 100,000 would that be fair? No of course not, hence why the definition of fairness has to be hammered out so we can develop a tax system acceptable to a majority.

Ben is just trying to stir the pot. He has little interest in a discussion of issues.

Nothing going on in the majestic hallways of the law today Ben?

As for maternity leave I think that is an issue that should be left to businesses to either provide their staff or not. Why is the government involved in this issue at all?

On the other hand more child care places should be made available and affordable.Actually AGB it is you that should look harder at your own views B&amp;B seems more realistic then yourself.

Abbott still lives in the world of the  two to four words slogans. He explains nothing in detail either because he is unable to give logical well thought out arguments or he just wants to keep a cover over everything his government does.

The cover of secrecy of the Abbott government is its worst fault, it s a travesty against democracy. And Labor hasn't done much to lift that cover.

Enough is enough.

we are talking about major changes to our freedoms. We deserve an explanation form the PM not some id site.

Have you ever heard of TV? Some leaders when they introduce important changes get on it to address the people directly.

That it what I expect.And this site explains why they are needed and why the present laws weren't good enough?

Or is it just that Abbott doesn't understand the complex laws his government is putting into place??



The USA is actually better off then Australia if you consider a lower debt to GDP and growth level is concerned.

But that isn't the point is it? 

It is the voter's right to know. A healthy democracy demands an open government that does not hide behind a veil of 'operational' need to know nonsense.

Not anywhere near Canberra that is for sure.

Try the European countries. 

Australia is saddled with the most secretive government I've ever seen since the Nixon government.  

Morrison is the most extreme version of this approach but not the only one.

Why are we in the war in Iraq? What is its the goal? What would be considered a victory? And how is such a victory going to be achieved?

How can anyone really judge Australia's justification for entry into this conflict without a government that is willing to explain such vital elements?

But all Abbott's Ministers ever give us are three word slogans. Nothing is explained and people seem to continue to buy into this nonsense approach, amazing. 

And before you say it, we get little better from Labor.


Abbott may be down your list but not mine. The man lied to gain office and, seeing that his budget is going down like a lead balloon he  is now lying to stay there.


I agree. 

Another irony is that a recent decision by the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee (PBAC) to refuse subsidies for a breakthrough treatment for Hepatitis C had effectively delivers a death sentence to up to 50,000 Australians.

And yet we are ready to spend billions yet again on a war in Iraq, go figure.


Creating fear is a good vote getter but the question that needs to be asked, and answered, is how is it all going to end?

How is this new coalition going to end up in any better a place then the last one did. Until the backers of this war can answer that all they have to offer is fear.

And yet people are buying into this fear helped by the media.

Are we so silly to buy into this nonsense?

At the end of the day you do move along, you really have no choice.

One sets priorities, is it worth the expending of resources to fight 17 year old kids or say deal with providing drugs for Hepatitis C . A drug it has been reported as being able to save 50,000 Australian lives.

Bullocks, any baby boomer that lived through the 1950's and 60's faced a lot more real reasons to be fearful then the young.

When I was in primary school there were years when the city I lived in Chicago use to, once a month on a Tuesday, have a test of its  security systems. 

A siren used to sound, I think it was around 10 am, and if you were in school you were suppose to hide under your desk to help protect you from a nuclear bomb.  

At night on TV one would watch the news and see one country or another test their latest nuclear weapon. There were of course TV movies and plays dealing with a nuclear war and the end of civilisation.

And if that wasn't enough to put the fear of god into you had the Cuba crisis or some communist idiot banging his shoe on a table saying the USSR was going to bury us.

And I am suppose to be afraid of some pimply faced kid with a rifle? Common.


One of the points here Catherine is that by spreading fear and giving publicity to 17 year olds we are just encouraging the idiots to play the game and get their 15 minutes of fame.

It also wins votes and sells papers.


The Press is? Or the Press and Abbott.

Abbott has no problems standing in front of a camera stoking this monster.


Really? Once again you lie. Billions of dollars are being held up and unlikely to ever be passed in anywhere near their present form.

Good for you John, a Liberal that makes sense. Why not start up a new party with you as the head?

Billions of dollars of investment as well as jobs in a growth industry are at stake.

What does a government that is "open for business" want to do? Shut down this new and growing industry in favour of one in decline. Figures.To be fair Labor has NOT agreed to this but has agreed to negotiate, we will see if he starts to grow a backbone.


Don't understand your comment.

"At some stage we either have good sense prevailing or a catastrophe." ... 'good sense' means what?



People die all the time. Police are killed on regular intervals. It is nasty but that danger goes with the job.

The real danger is in the middle east. Will the Sunni's and Shia's ever reconcile their hatred of both each other and other cultures. 

I for one am not going to run in fear when every 17 year old wishes me dead.



Over 100,000 women and children are hurt every year in domestic violence. How many Australians have been killed fighting terrorism?Actually it was reported today that the figures is over 200,000. doesn't matter if it is women, children or men. What matters is how many resources the government is willing to put towards a very real problem.


An Australia woman is killed every week by her partner. Yet do we see 800 police knocking down doors to save them?

This supposed threat is more about politics then real danger.

Quake in fear if you want when pimply faced kids threaten you but try and look at the danger you face every day just crossing the street.


You got me wrong GRF, I am not blaming the police but the lack of resources for a real threat to Australians rather then this supposed threat.

Oh get real Zing.

The entire point is there are real reasons to be afraid and there are the pretend ones. 17 year olds spouting nonsense are not one of the ones I lose any sleep over.


When there is real danger we should face it. You have a much greater chance of dying in a car accident then you do being killed by a 17 year old Islamic nut case.

Do you stay inside your house and quiver in fear rather then drive your car?

A whole lot of people died so you had those liberties in the first place.

Do you want to make their deaths a mockery?

Silly comment. No one wants anyone to die. It is a matter of Australian priorities. 

What are the real risks of death by a terrorist.  How many people die in a car accident, or crossing the street, or are killed by people they know?

Then how many resources are you ready to put up to deal with those risks?

Our involvement in Iraq is because of two things, first our allegiance to the USA and the poll boost it offers.

Labor has tried to tie itself to the war so it doesn't lose too much on either count. So the 'lefties', if that is what Labor is now a days has joined the chorus.

From my point of view our resources are best spent making Australia a better place to live.


It was TA who first brought down the security measures around parliament.

Security of parliament is one thing, necessary of course but you do remember there was a guy from Queensland who had no connection to Islam that had plans to bomb the middle of Sydney. 

He was stopped with the current level of security.

800 police raided numerous houses made one arrest of a minor nature. While at the same time there are over 100,000 cases of family abuse. Over one woman a year is killed by her spouse. Children are being abused throughout the public child care system. Where is our minister for women when these facts are written?

Abbott has the country running into a corner to suck its thumb over threats from children holding weapons and you are proud of this?

Are you seriously of the belief Dean that it is only the poor that suffer domestic abuse?

And the kids that attended schools, were placed taken from their homes and abused in foster care, the women that die every week because their spouse got mad, these people don't count?

If over 100,000 women and children were either killed or hurt every year by terrorist what would you do? Or does it depend on whether or not they were on welfare?How does one stop domestic violence? Well maybe by giving that area enough resources to deal with the problem. 

More not fewer safe house for women to go to when in danger. More not fewer case workers to look into domestic violence.
More not fewer outreach programs to help people deal with their anger.
More powers for the police to deal with the problem.

At the present time what is the greater danger? A pimply 17 year old about to learn some very hard lessons? Or people in this country who's lives are being turned upside down because the government just doesn't care?

We don't restrict freedoms where there are real threats, family violence and yet you and your LNP mates are willing to through them out the window over threats of 17 year olds.

Go figure.

Thought it was obvious, the prioritising of resources.

What is more important a 100,000 people suffering domestic violence or the zero that have died so far from terrorist attacks?

Interesting article.

In my opinion we are over the top in our  "knee-jerk reaction of anger, fear and hatred".

When a 17 year old kid strikes fear in the leaders of the country we have a problem. It is as if we are now so afraid we now can't look into the darker corners of our fear's.

Australians have become like children hearing about the big bad wolf. we are now letting that fear overwhelm our desire to live in a free country. The baddies have in a sense won. What Australia stood for has been thrown away by pics of kids with guns.

Our forefathers would have wondered what they fought and died for. Is this country ever going to find a backbone?




There are slaughters gong on over much of Africa, try doing a search on the Congo once.

The issues will only be settled politically. Sunni's no longer trust the Shia government and for good reason. How is our involvement going to fix that problem?


You do realise that Abbott is the PM now, so when the author says 'current' he just means the present. Minor sorts of comments like this just get you off and running. As if Abbott needs your on gong protection. 

By the way didn't you read the full article, once again, you seem to miss this comment ... "housing affordability is not on the political agenda of Labor or the Coalition" 

These articles are only allotted so much space. I'd say somewhere around 400 words. That isn't a lot so they can only ever give a broad brush stroke of an issue.

The points you want raised are not pertinent to the essential point  that being said in the conclusion ... "While most media outlets continue to unquestioningly report price increases in a positive light there is little chance of this changing" 


Same here but then we look at the lack of choice and that gives me even greater grips.

No Whitlam's, Hawkes, Keating's or even a half baked Howard anywhere to be seen.What ever goes up at some point goes down, it is all in the timing.

It would take a pretty strong politician to not only talk about but do something in regards to housing affordability. Don't see any of those types on the horizon. 


I don't think Ben is writing about Spurr's comments so much as he is Humphries attempt to make them look humours.

"Careful analysis will reveal that the above trend is not distributed uniformly across the political spectrum. Witness what is written on these pages each day." ... I agree almost always by yourself Forrest.

You wear your admiration of Abbott on your sleeve and any comment that shows any disregard o criticism of Abbott just gets you off and running to his defence. 

Ben has a point, a very valid point, in this article ...  "I don't think Humphries is doing any service to those of us who would like a less censorious attitude to joke-making, by choosing as his example a man who really just seems to be extremely angry about all the darkies and bitches getting in his way." 

Such comments are not funny and shouldn't be made to look that way.

While I often don't agree with her I don't mind Jacquie Lambie's opinions. I trust her more then Abbott. And to tell you the truth I almost never find Humphries funny.

Humour, or what we take for the comic, can make for strange bedfellows.  I suspect there are many that think like Mr Spurr and express their opinions to others thinking they are hilarious, I go over the top myself and while I am rolling around on the ground my wife is trying to disown me. 

Its only when we take a public stage and express insults that questions could be raised but again it would depend on timing and the audience. 

I mean every time Abbott or any of his cohorts get up and tell me Australians need to do some heavy lifting I end up in stiches. 


Well said. 

The only thing I would add is that the present ALP leadership doesn't look within a country mile of up to the class of Whitlam, Keating and I would add Hawke. So we are left with no alternatives.

No Rudd could have been but fell apart when he couldn't get any movement on climate change. 

He should have been able to deal with the lack of support from his party if he had had a stronger vision.

I didn't put in Howard but he did have a few moments, gun control and East Timor. He failed badly over the children overboard and the Iraq war.


Do you find it somewhat hypocritical of Abbott to sing the praises of Whitlam after he died but during the last election harangue him as being a terrible PM?

If nothing else Whitlam put into place some major reform. Some were good some weren't but he didn't bang on about it just got in and dirtied his hands and made hard decisions.It does look like this "war" is going to help Abbott but for how long? Time will tell.

Isn't it so weak that Abbott gets himself flustered when a 17 year old kid threatens the world?

Are we now to be afraid of every little punk that brandishes a weapon? The government is acting like an old woman.


I'm sick of it already. We've dropped what six bombs that are reported to have had a devastating impact on ISIL, oh give me a break.

I am still allowed to have a go much to the utter distain of some.


Did you read the comments by her teacher graazt? That she didn't deserve the scholarship?

Harry did you know that the CEO approach Abbott to let schools like his charge their fees under the HECS program? That Abbott has allowed that to happen. That such a change would be a major boost for schools like his?

Doesn't that smell just a tiny weeny bit foul to you?



public interest against an individual's right to privacy, sounds like dollar signs for the legal profession.

As for Slipper, I think he was 'done' for political reasons which Abbott and Co now want to put behind us.

I'll wait until I hear more about Spurr's situation before I decide if his was the same.

There is a public's right to know if there is a law stating that is the case. Your stating otherwise doesn't change anything.



Transgenderism, good to see we are talking about it in what seems like a rational manner.

BE nice if the world got to a situation where people's personal choices didn't really matter as long as they don't hurt someone else.


Don't know a lot about Whitlam other then what I've read. When you look at the changes he brought about in a few years one has to be impressed. Many of those changes are still about, though Abbott is doing his best to get rid of some more.

The only other leader that I've seen here in Australia that has brought about some a wide breathe of change is the Hawke Keating governments.

Whitlam was Labor and the Greens should respect that and not try to ride on his coattails.



Agreed, no restrictions on where a murder or violent person can live but plenty on a sex offender.

I'd like to see a total rethink on the concept of punishment. I know this might sound crass but value for money does putting someone in jail actually help society?

It cost a bundle in legal fees and incarceration but does it really stop more crime?

We've been fighting the war on drugs forever and drugs are still winning by a mile.

There must be a better way of dealing with behaviour society considers undesirable.






You should also thank Cuba. One of the poorest countries in the world has sent teams of medical staff to fight the disease.


While Australia, one of the richest, has just pledged money.Look for the answer in which companies donate vast amounts of money to the LNP.

Australian democracy ... the best money can buy.

I agree.
Actually quite a few have been thrown out of work especially in Queensland and WA.You should look into this a bit more Ben.

Billions of dollars waiting to be invested in renewables has gone because of the policies of Abbott. At the same time partly because of the antics of BHP and RIO loading the market with iron ore and coal and the subsequent lowering of the prices of these minerals has caused many smaller miners out of business.

The antics of BHP and RIO have also hit the coffers of WA, Queensland and NT.

Its a case of the big end of town getting rid of the competition and we all pay. These guys are no fans of the nation and should be hammered not praised for their antics.



Tony Abbott opening a mine and telling us all that "coal was good for humanity", Joe Hockey attempting to have us think it is "absolutely ridiculous" to believe Australia is one of the "dirtiest, most greenhouse emitting countries in the OECD group", ... does one expect these two to say anything else? Who helped pay for their election?

I fully expect the LNP apologist to start kicking the boot into myself and anyone else that dares questions an opposition to coal but then they have to, to be honest and to look at the issue like adults just isn't going to happen, Abbott's re-election is at stack.

But guys think for just a minute, how much do you actually know about coal and the health impacts of not just mining it, but its transportation and impact when it is burned to make energy. And I am not talking about just in relationship to the climate but to your health. It is slowly killing you and will be even worse for your children.

It won't be the CO2 in the gases that coal fired power plants emit but the other particles in the admissions. 

Though I know you Abbott rusted on's won't bother to look into this problem one can hope that some day you might just wake up.


If the demonstration of these students is viewed as a risk to China's sovereignty then China must be a very weak government.

I still remember the riots of the late 60's and early 70's in the USA. Buildings ablaze, people being killed, nightly news cast of people looting, fires it was horrible.

And yet some how the USA worked through those times. China will not suffer unless their government cracks down so hard people feel they have been really oppressed. 


Maybe because this issue hit a stronger cord? A cord so vital to the LNP that they are backing away from their position asap?What does that have to do with directing sexist comments against a leader of the opposition?


Grown ups are in short supply in the LNP ranks.

Cuba one of the poorest countries in the world is one of the FEW countries actually providing medical staff.

Hairy chested men don't want to confront disease they just like to drop bombs.

I agree with you, the Ebola Virus is THE threat of our times but don't tell Abbott.

I think the point of the article is that combating it is not a vote winner and as we know that is the only thing that is important, not.

This is one of the few moves by Labor lately that I can support but I think it will cost the support IF other nations do the heavy lifting and it doesn't spread.

But if it does get as bad as is being predicted ... very interesting.

We better shut our boarders completely, and don't let anyone leave, if we don't want to live with a threat of the Ebola virus.




The doctors in the area are demanding more doctors not more money.

Ask them who do you think knows the situation better? You or them?
Really? How long do you think we should wait until we develop strategies to deal with this disease?

The ones facing the front head on don't want our money, they said they don't need it, what they need are 'boots on the ground'.

For once I agree with Labor. We should act like adults and get stuck into this problem.


The doctors are asking for the one thing they don't have nearly enough of doctors and nurses.

You are probably correct to say Labor has misread the public's interest on this issue but of all the things going that REALLY threaten Australia the Ebola virus could well be the most dangerous and the most risky to try and deal with at its source.

There are reports of the virus rising exponentially to the point of over a million people being infected and with a mortality rate of 70% this needs the resources of every nation.

The trouble is there wouldn't be any jet fighters to climb into while giving the thumbs up or other hairy chested men to stand next to, no big guns to fire off into an empty landscape. As well there will probably be a lot more dead bodies for people to morn.

If Labor was aiming for votes the Ebola Virus is not an issue to be pushing but it means a lot more to the security of the world then chasing after a rat bag bunch of no hopers in Iraq.


"Ebola will clearly backfire" ... maybe ... until it comes here and we have done nothing to stop it.


260 million Indonesians aren't reason enough for you to introduce Bahasa into schools? 

Think a bit outside the square.Which party is in power again? When the spy information came out Labor was hammered. 

There aren't too many occasions when a Minister of an Australian government called the new leader of Indonesia a liar.
Last time I looked Abbott was suppose to be the PM. I think he should be held responsible for the actions of his government.

Read the article. It isn't about hammering one party or the other.
It is about giving a broad overview of Australian leaders relationship with that of Indonesia."So good on Tony Abbott for attending Jokowi's inauguration on Monday, it shows Australia's respect and support for democracy in Indonesia." ... "a Tony bash" ???.... yet another LNP supporter that doesn't bother to actually read the article before making a comment."So good on Tony Abbott for attending Jokowi's inauguration on Monday, it shows Australia's respect and support for democracy in Indonesia." ... the article is balanced its your ultra self-righteous LNP view of the world that needs readjusting.

"Why are they not mentioned by the Author ?" Because the article isn't about questioning one Australian party's performance it is about Australia's leaders relationship with that of Indonesian leadership.

Why is that so hard for you to understand?

"So good on Tony Abbott for attending Jokowi's inauguration on Monday, it shows Australia's respect and support for democracy in Indonesia." ... so you regard this article of a bashing of Abbott?

Your comments might make some sense if you bothered to take the time to read the articles first.

This article is just a broad overview of Australia's past history with Indonesia. There are only so many facts one can include in an article of this size.


It is so depressing how quickly Australians of both sides of politics are at throwing away freedoms that have been fought for over the decades.

Have we really become so weak and so afraid of our shadow that we feel the need to close down our democracy because of these ISIL ratbags?

The Ebola virus and climate change are a threat to the world.

ISIL are a bunch of rat bags that threaten a weak Iraqi government and the Assad regime. They will only threaten us if we keep down the path we are heading.

Really? Should I now wave a flag? Are the other countries that are not participating milk sops to tyrants? Pull the other one.

In order to fight this war we are willing to throw away freedoms that soldiers died for in countless wars. ISIL has beaten both the LNP and Labor.

If you really want to stand up for something stand up to fight the Ebola epidemic and climate change.

"combined international action is absent", wrong. It is just that outcome that Obama wanted to pursue at the G20 and has made a point of in several speeches. It is just that you and Tony don't want to hear what is being said around the world that is the problem.




Agreed.
However, saying that  "Spurr was a thorough idiot" doesn't cover it. This man was picked to help the government decide on the future of education across Australia, figures.

What's an ipod really used for and what has replaced it?


Why do you think it ends there?

One of the key ingredients to help foster democracy is the right to demonstrate and express ones anger at the actions taken by any government no matter which side of politics is in power.

To ignore that right, in fact I'd go further and say responsibility, is fail as a citizen.

"a cacophony of dissatisfaction." ... boy have you got that one right.

I am so disgusted by all sides I'm joining the "enough is enough" revolution.

I have every intention of agitating, by using the Drum, joining protesting marches and backing independents in both the sate and federal elections. To do anything else would be to have left a mess for my children.



Sophie, I can easily understand and I do sympathize but what of the people that cannot get away or when they do and look for a safe haven only find rejection from countries like Australia?

These people will neve have a sympathetic ear, never have an outlet for their grief. They have no where to reach out to just hard hearted rejection because countries like ours think they have done enough. How could we ever do enough?

I hope you can recover and I want to thank you for your work.

Putin should always have been allowed to come no matter what anyone has said. That isn't the question is it really?

This G20 meeting is suppose to be about gaining good economic outcomes across the world. Something that is desperately needed especially when you consider the recent downgrading of growth targets.

There are of course, as always, other non-economic issues that could distract from the real purpose of the G20. They should NOT be allowed to take over discussions.

But what Abbott has said will help do exactly that, the man doesn't think before he speaks. Wake me up when he starts to act as an adult.

"Inadvertently" ... that's the problem isn't it, Abbott's inadvertent thought bubbles getting in the way of other serous issues.

With the latest downgrades of growth prospects I hope the leaders are able to focus on financial matters because god knows the world needs them to but with so many other things going on I wonder what could be achieved even if Abbott hadn't open his mouth.


Where did I state that climate change didn't deserve to be a topic of discussion during these meetings?

In fact, other then in the minds of people like yourself and Abbott, it is one of the MOST important elements facing the world's.

Oh great, pollies that vote on important issues when they don't have a clue what they are about.

Can this get any worse? Really guys contact your pollie and have a query. Do they understand what they have voted for?

As I have said a few times democracy here has descended into a farce. Time for a change.


Did any of them raise this as an issue before they voted?

If they don't understand it John51 they shouldn't have voted for it.Your comment is a nonsense.

The G20 is suppose to be about how to improve the economies of the world. If you want to get into other issues do it at the right time and place, the UN.

Russia, for all its questionable actions is the fifth largest economy in the world. Because of that position they should be listened to regarding ways to improve the world's growth.

Abbott is acting the local politician, he should keep his trap shut and deal with issues that need to be addressed, including climate change.

"JoeBloggs is correct the Russion (sp) do appreciate plain speaking" ... you are completely missing the point. We are supposed to be led by adults not adolescent children.

Abbott isn't acting for the Russians he is acting for people like you and Joe.Abbott once again spoke before he thought, what is new.

Abbott has put his personal views above those of the world and I include the issue of climate change. An issue that even the US Pentagon is now fully concerned about and making arrangements to deal with.

As for issue of growth, well that looks a bit shakier then it did a few weeks ago. It is hard to find to many positives in this area and I am not sure what countries will be willing to do other then to look out for themselves.


I'll be interested to see what sort of feel good words come out of this talkfest as for real initiatives? I will try to be positive but ...



Abbott is our PM, meaning the nations leader. The terms he used are used by kids I high school when trying to threaten another boy.

You might not expect more of the PM but I and others do.You will live a lot longer then the average person did in 1800.

Humans do adjust to changing circumstances.

Interesting article and very timely, thanks.

"no journalism exists freely without the choices of its creator." ... no, but I have no problem if ABC had more articles form the conservative side. 

They do have the odd one or two and more would be good."love it or leave" ... used to hear that in the USA, they probably still say that sort of thing.

A country is define by its values. Now those can develop ebbing and growing over time.

If by saying "love it or leave" we mean I have to love the detention of men women and children in prisons because they were seeking asylum, or that climate change is crap, or that entitlements are only for those with wealth and most of the other nonsense that the Abbott government comes up with well I don't love it but I am also not going to leave it.

If Australians can't take opposition to others values then it isn't the country it thinks it is.

"could be seen as a criticism of Woolworths decision to remove the T-shirts from sale?" ... guess it could if I had actually said that but I didn't.

I suspect Woolies took it off the shelves for business reasons.I reckon wear both if you want and I don't think anything I wrote says otherwise.


Why can't they be one and the same?

Australia is a much more interesting place to live now then when I first came to visit in the late 1970's. And it is more interesting because of the variety of people that call it home.


Are you saying that the rule of law has changed with an influx of migrants? If so how exactly.


You mean the ones that took away the land from those that were already living here?

Those are values you think we should maintain?


So much for democracy under the land 'al' lives in.


A social contract depends on truth not lies.

When politicians gain office through telling porkies they devalue the concept of the social contract and it is them that should depart.

Many people in this country give a lot back to their community and they are justly remembered for their efforts, but none that I have ever seen say others should "love it or leave it".Or one aspect of free speech.Because you don't see or hear about asylum seekers dying doesn't mean it isn't happening. Abbott's approach has just saved Australian sensibilities from seeing their deaths and misery. 

As far as I am concerned that is the cowards approach.



What do you think happens to asylum seekers that don't make it to Australia? Why do you think they risk death to get here?

Australians are listed as the world's richest people, thank you Labor. However the world continues to turn and now it could well be Abbott's turn to face the heat.

There are so many unknown unknowns at this moment I don't see another GFC. I do see a long period of below average growth and over 6% unemployment with all the pressure such conditions place on society.

I reckon the later part of 2015 will see the real beginning of problems for this country. The entitled won't have to worry too much though their mates Abbott and Hockey will look after them.



Wrong harry. Why lie? Stats just out yesterday clearly states that in comparison to other Australians wealth has been increasing for over a decade.

Instead why don't you have a critical look at the Abbott government. Are their approaches going to increase or decrease our national wealth?
Curious Harry what you think Abbott should do with the signs of another possible 2008 scenario?

Take money out of the economy or put it in?



While I agree that the manner in which we do trades can be a major problem I don't think it is the core of the problem.

What worries me the most is that with low interest rates businesses are not investing, wages are going down s inflation and unemployment is going up.

Add to this the decrease in government spending and a war without end and I see trouble.

Agreed, it is probably more accurate to put it that way.

"Merge with James Packer's Crown Casino" ... wow now that is an idea I haven't heard before.

I don't think you are totally serious EM. I reckon nationalising all the mining companies might be more financially beneficial. 

My tongue was in my cheek, a bit. 

However, who punishes the Norwegians for their approach of insuring that their mineral wealth is used to benefit their nation instead of the miners?


A good analysis when Tim concludes that Abbott is going to look Putin in the eye and be able to determine if Putin has a soul?

Listening is not Abbott's strong point and I can not see him coming to an adult conclusion. It will all be about what political advantage he thinks he can draw from the situation.

IF there is ever a point reached where a trial can be held and supposed facts can be put to the test might we learn what actually happened. I doubt I will ever see that day.Agreed, but he is only one, he needs support.I wonder why the soldiers of the past bothered. 

We now find out all it really takes is a little scare mongering and Australians are willing to throw away their freedoms over  a motely bunch of no hopers half way across the globe. 

Abbott has go you living in fear John, man up.




"made a political choice." that is your opinion. In mine they have made a ecological choice. The same one that major companies, institutions and people are making across the globe. 

I hope they stick to their guns and more join them.Yes, so what?

There are at least some I Hong Kong and I suspect other places that want more.

But then I want more from the democracy we have here in Australia. I guess at least the students in Hong Kong are willing to protest using their bodies in the process. So good for them.




"budget measures hurt those in the ALP electorates harder than those held by the Government." ... did you miss this point Tory?

Another point you might want to consider is that while Abbott has tried his best to make people afraid the grants his government is handing out for security measures are going 80% to LNP seat and the four major grants have all gone to LNP seats.

A leader for everyone? My foot.

What nonsense. Because the Abbott government stand almost alone in its denial of climate change you want to have a go at an institution that is making a SOUND economic decision.

Coal an industry in decline. Renewable energy a growth industry.


Actually GRF gas is being burned off right now in Queensland for nix because they don't have too much and no way of off loading it.

Even the Pentagon believes in climate change and is taking measures besides just securing their navel bases but preparing for the wave of human misery that will follow.

Some do inherit their wealth, that is true but leaving it at that does create a politics of envy.

I don't mind people inheriting their wealth. Nor do I mind them working hard to gain wealth. 

What I do mind, a lot, is that when they earn this wealth they forget that there are others that have also worked hard but for numerous reasons have not accumulated wealth. And knowing that others are doing it tough withhold or find any excuse to avoid paying taxes. OR vote for a party that passes unfair budgets that penalise the worse off.

I really don't understand how anyone with a conscience can support Abbott. 

His latest travesty is his offer to the Defence personnel of 1.5% pay increase per year for the next three years while also having to give up leave entitlements. 

What in the heck is he thinking? He just sends these guys off to yet another foolish war and offers them this sort of insulting pay increase.

Unbelievable.

No you don't get "IT". I don't like either party leader.

However, it wasn't the Shorten government that is only going to give the armed forces personnel a 1.5% increase, take a days leave off them AND send them into battle in Iraq.

NOW do you get it?


"pay the debt off from Bank profits", that would be a start but I doubt that will ever happen.

I have no doubt the issue is complex and needs addressing on several fronts. One of the very obvious ones is revenue. That means a restructuring of who gets taxed and by how much. 

Abbott present approach is to hit the poorest. He does so because they tend to be in Labor seats so he doesn't care.

There was an article relating to grants made to areas for the sake of 'national' security. 80% of those grants went to LNP seats. The four largest grants went to LNP seats.

Heavy lifting by all, my rear end.

Does a national curriculum really exists?  Is this a joke?

Do we have a guideline, a framework , a syllabus or what and
"most importantly, who decides"

I believe that Gillard was right about one thing, it should be the experts, not hand picked wannabes, that decide if there is one and who constructs it, but if what Chris writes is accurate that is what seems to have happened.

I agree in broad terms that basics needed to be the focus in the primary grades and that education is an imperative, hence why it should never become a political football.

An interesting point from the findings mentioned is the desire to focus on European Anglo Saxon side of our history and not the Aboriginal or Asian side. 

Look at a map guys where is England and where is Asia and even more importantly where do the natives of this country live?

I am curious on how other nations approach this topic and what the more successful ones implement.
"Stop comparing apples and oranges." ... what? Stop comparing our children's results with other countries?

And how does this deal with the issues of education?

The real reform that Gillard put in place the Gonski (sp?) reforms had to do with funding not curriculum. In that regard her government did well, hence why Abbott agreed to it during the election, though is now trying to wiggle our of that promise.

"more of a focus on Western literature, and recognition of Australia's "Judeo-Christian" heritage." ... oh please. 

With more then half the people living in Asia and our being kind of closer to that area then England one would have thought a bias towards the Asian cultures would have been the go.

But no lets hang onto the past change might make us more afraid then we are already.

So you are happy for the natural make up of the land is to be turned on its head?

Will we also consider cane toads part of our natural makeup? And wild dogs, pigs, deer, foxes, goats, camels?

Throw our Australian animals and let these guys just take over. You don't see a problem with that concept?

Try living off the land and see what damage these guys do.


"As is usually the case in these matters, both share the blame, pretty much in equal measure" ... to a point but remember the problem was with the figures for July August and September THIS year.

Can't see how you can blame Labor for that, unless of course Abbott and Hockey still haven't taken the reigns of government.

By the way are they ever going to be held responsible for their actions or lack there of?

If there is any area that should be cut it is the number of politicians we have, they are expensive dead weight.

Agreed and they have the gaul to cut and slash services while they are milking the system for all its worth.

As far as I am concerned neither side of politics has a reason to hold their heads high but you are correct the LNP seem to be unable to figure out how to govern so they blame everything on Labor.

Time to look in another direction maybe a bunch of independents would shake things up.

You still going down that line Chip? You'd rather have 10% unemployment?

Abbott has insulted us all with his lies, Gillard with hers, Rudd with his under mining of Gillard and Howard with his children over board and WMD.

The problem is too many politicians and not enough boats on the ground.


If you keep spouting the party line where will we get?

Abbott lied through his teeth to get elected. He now has some 32 spin masters feeding us your sort of line and over and over again we tell you it is rubbish.

Enough has to be enough. The problem is neither major party is delivering. And people have to start getting as mad as hell with both sides if things are ever going to change.

"So why are they still blaming Labor?"

Why?  because they don't have a clue on what to do.

But lets be fair, we are not being served by either side. The way these politicians abuse the system makes my blood boil.

If we really want to save money and have an efficient government cut back on the pollies across all levels. 
I'm fed up with politicians. As far as I am concerned we need more services and fewer dead beat politicians.Why make it political? Because it the ABS is part of the government.

You love making excuses for the LNP but you clearly see a government that believes that cutting back on people needed to deliver services we pay for is a good idea. Well it obvious isn't. 

I've stated my solution in board terms cut back sharply on the number of politicians. Introduce a system where we have a computerised system to get a vote on important spending issues. Have the delivery of services farmed out  to independent bodies overseen by a few government officials.  
For the state and local governments in a similar manner.

This obviously won't happen until we stop supporting LNP or ALP but vote for independents.

Is that good enough to start?


You start off saying IF these numbers are correct ... then say you believe the unemployment figures are double the number stated. 

My answer? Fewer politicians and more services.
The title of the article was how just cutting back on staffing doesn't mean you are going to end up with a better system.

Supposedly the reason for the problem with the figures was that the ABS changed its mythology.

Labor cut back on money to the ABS and Hockey cut it back further so we end up with a body trying to cut corners. End product? Garbage.

Agreed Rae, hence why I am saying lets start voting for more independents. 

God knows they aren't great so far but are they necessarily worse?This is just the start of things Vincent. All across the board there are cuts to services so that Hockey can say he has done his job of saving us from the budget emergency.

It has gotten to the point when it is justified to ask why we bother having a government at all.

At the moment all we are paying our taxes for is a war, the stopping of boats and pollies freeloading.

The politicians should have it no different then the rest of us. Bugger the add ons and they should be allowed to draw on their supers until they are 70. 

Lets see how they like it.


OH my, Ben you have really opened Pandora's box with this article.

Reckon we should all crawl back into the conservative caves and roll the stones of righteous indignation behind us.

"advocating terrorism", isn't it ironic that a government that made a major issue of "the right to be a bigot" is now passing laws against being a bigot?

What a tangled web we weave.

A woman walking down the street is accosted by a man or men who abuse her for wear a head scarf. They do so because they are expressing bigoted views.

The expression of these views terrorises this women and in fact all other women that follow their beliefs and wear such clothing.

Those men are terrorists. You don't have to set off bombs to be a terrorists.




What do you think the expression of hatred leads to?

Muslim women in Australia are being terrorised by bigots.

A person that expresses their hatred of you because of their bigoted views creates terror.


My point was that bigotry begets terrorists.  You don't have one without the other.

"barbaric brutality by these Islamic Savages" ... this event just happened recently here in Australia ... a man killed his wife, chops her up and cooks part of her,. He wasn't Muslim by all accounts he was a typical Australian male.

Sounds like we don't have to travel very far to look at a savage.
A woman dies every week here in Australia at the hands of their partner.

How many women in Australia have terrorists killed this year?

Terror doesn't just happen in places like Iraq but there are no new laws being put in place to deal with these very real tragedies by the Federal Minister for Women.

 


Under these new laws I would think  Hizb Ut Tahrir could be banned. Should they be? Only if you are also going to band the likes of Alan Jones, the likes of the IRA when they were a force,  those of the Jewish faith that decry the pleas of the Palestrina's. Hell ban those that want the death penalty returned.

There are plenty of people and groups that could be banned. Once you start where do you stop?

Interesting. As per normal Hockey blames Labor. Are the LNP ever going to take the reigns of government?

This is a rather important issue as many others rely on this information. Labor and the LNP have cut the bodies resources maybe they should smarten up and reallocate funds to these guys.

Also I can't understand why working one hour a week means one is considered employed.I'm sick and tired of lame excuses aGuy. Hockey is playing a blame game. If he had been on top of his game he would have known there was a funding problem and giving more resources but he didn't, he cut their fudging further.

as long as the followers of the LNP and ALP keep on making excuses for he mess that their parties make the longer it is going to be before real change happens.

Thanks for that clarification but easy to remember?

By the way the Morgan poll has unemployment at 9.3%.

Interesting stat.

Why shouldn't their funding be cut? Because they are a valuable tool to business.

The question is who should pay for it, obviously business. The adult approach would be to set up business funding BEFORE you cut their budget.

Abbott has given an increase in funding to the armed forces is this another cop out? Why can't they do their job with less money?

Agreed they probably will turn up more corruption. 

Now lets have three commissions of greater importance. One into Howard's involvement in the Iraq war and the second into our involvement in this Iraq war. 

We weren't told the truth last time and we aren't being told the truth this time.

The way money funnelled from both the unions and business into Labor and the LNP are destroying democracy in Australia.


Not a witch hunt but more so what is new? They found corruption. You could find and they have found corruption in the priesthood, and just about every religious group going, again so what?

When you are adult enough to demand a similar commission into business, federal politicians perks, the wars in Iraq and then punish those responsible I'll take notice.

There never was a commission of enquiry into how we got involved in Howard's Iraq war.

Rather more important then anything a union has done.

Some unions are corrupt. What a surprise.

Some businesses are corrupt. As are some politicians, lawyers, teachers, religious, etc.

Unions hold too much power in the ALP. Businesses hold too much sway in the LNP. Answer reform the bloody bunch.

New poll out shows that people are no longer trusting the Federal level of government. Again no surprises here. The question is what is going to be done about the situation? 

If we leave it to the politicians ... very little. It is time we said enough is enough and get mad as hell and demand reforms.


"Politics is show business for ugly people.

It is mostly unnecessary and full of divas." Agreed, now be ready to do something about it.

As far as I am concerned none of the major parties should get you vote if you really believe what you said.

Rubbish its the wealthy 1% of the population that control the LNP.

Neither side represents the majority.


no apparent cause or reason behind it. ... because the reasons are not apparent doesn't mean there aren't any.

Humans will gain a better understanding the more they look and discuss the problem just like we are in other areas of medicine.

"ridiculous discussions around Mental Illness," ... why is it ridiculous to try and understand something? Are we just to shut up about it?

I thought the article was reasonable and well worth the read.


"Turkey a disservice here, and they've been far better allies than the Kurds have ever been" ... really? Which army is actually fighting ISIL? 

As Turkey lines up its tanks they watch ISIL slaughter people on the other side of their boarder, while at the same time they keep men willing to cross the boarder to fight ISIL.

Turkey are also a big part of the reason terrorist have been able to gain entry to Syria, as well as letting weaponry get into the hands of these same guys.

Turkey wants the US to go in heavy against Assad, which to this point Obama isn't going to do.

Turkey is looking after Turkey. Unlike Abbott they have enough sense to look long term and they don't see ISIL as that big a threat, at least not big enough to wasted fighting over.



"The reasons for Turkish involvement presented by the author are shallow" ... may well be but without Turkish troops there is no ground forces capable of dealing with ISIL.

The Kurds can fight but they are too small with too limited a supply of weaponry. The Iraqi forces are a joke. More likely to run then fight I wonder how long they can even hold onto Bagdad. 

One article I read indicated that the people were ready to flee the country rather then fight.

The supporters of this war have a serious think about what is going on. You are not being told the reality of the situation, or you are just putting on blinkers so you don't see.

Without ground forces there is little chance of any sort of 'defeat' of ISIL. And unless the US steps in there is no country willing to place their troops in such a situation.

If defeated there is no government able to replace ISIL.

The hatred and distrust of the Sunni's and Shia groups will go on for decades.

While ISIL are terrible they are not a threat to us or the USA. 

The only possible solution in this area depends on those who are supporting the different parties to come to a political solution.

You may well not like that side of reality but that is how it is and will stay for some time.






I can't see any other forces other then the US or Turkey that can deal with ISIL, can you?

The political solution I am talking about doesn't include ISIL so much as it does Iran, the Saudi's and the other either Sunni or Shia nations in the area. Because it is these guys that are using  ISIL as a tool.

security in the neighbourhood? Depends on what happens. If all we are doing is providing air support and if Turkey doesn't get involved, well a very long time.

Joe, you are kidding aren't you?

You do realise that Syria's ally is Russia. Do you really want to see Russia, more then it already is, involved in this war?

The key players here really are Iran and the Saudi's a little help from Turkey would be great seeing that they have the only army in the region capable of dealing with ISIL but god forbid if that reached the point of doing battle with Syria.

 
Nasty for sure but without a leader this is what happens.

For a nation to go to war leaders depend on us hating the other side.

After some time when things don't go as planned will see the media start to turn. It will take some time and the turning will probably come because of independent news sources which the main stream will after some time not be able to ignore.

We have been sold a dead parrot. Hopefully some that supported this war will learn to understand that after awhile.



Can't see the IMF being worried about Australia but I am.

Inflation up (to be helped by the drop in our dollar).

Wages down (to be helped lower by the government).

At some point this situation is going to hit Australia hard.No worries I didn't state my point clearly.

As for the budget I don't see how passing what Hockey is proposing is going to help.

In fact I think the only real long term solution is to redo what we consider government.

I'll say it again neither party's approach is the solution because they are a large part of the problem. Abbott's lies at this last election and Labor's ties to unions and the war and their support for the new terrorism laws has lost me their support.

I'd prefer a situation where we the public would have a direct voice into what is or is not budgeted. 

I'd also like to see a drastic cut in the number and duties of politicians. 

I'd like a ceremonial head of state. 

I'd see the country run by some sort of computerised system where we would vote on measures placed before us. 

As far as I am concerned I am looking for an Independent to vote for in the next state and federal elections.

Enough is enough.

If you think declining wages and increasing inflation has to do with the measures yet passed you don't understand the problem.

By the way I don't give a fig what the ALP does or doesn't do.

As far as I am concerned the system we have here is broken. Both major parties are the wall blocking the solution.


Kind of a glib article but I accept the general points.

The amount of angst being caused by the rather improbable event of a women wearing a 'burqa', a blue full length garments worn in Afghanistan, or even a niqab in mind boggling. 

I read an article a few days ago where the author claimed there might be 100 women in all of Australia that might wear a niqab. Why the out pouring of anger?

Look at the people piercing their bodies or the flood of silly looking tattoos. And politicians in revealing swim wear. And people are getting excited over this issue, amazing.

Agreed, but until we the people actually take some sort of action we are going to be pushing these problems around forever.

All of the major parties need to change or have it forced on them. The level of disconnect between the voter and the politician is becoming a chasm.

We really ought to concentrate on that elusive quality of inclusivity and closeness with each other ... agreed but I don't see how that can happen when we have such a confrontational political system.

ISIL has filled a political void in Iraq and Syria. As long as that continues there will be one group of radicals or another.

Good article. The task of de-radicalising anyone, including Muslims is horrendously hard. Your approach seems sound but would Australia be willing to put the structure in place that could achieve such an outcome?

I do not see anyone form any political party capable of leading us towards that goal.OK you don't agree with the article, so what? I do.

Interesting point. Maybe we can due without the subs for awhile seeing that we are fighting a death cult that means to destroy the world."Terrorism's one thing, but death cults are something else altogether" ... what is it with the use of the word "death cult"?

Abbott loves these sorts of nonsense terms. It helps cause fear at home giving him more stature as PM but in the case of ISIL it is a nonsense.

Are they a mean bunch, yep, but they are trying to start up a government holding to some very harsh restrictions.

Will anyone of the LNP faithful acknowledge that you are being had? 

Your leader has signed Australia for a war with no real goal other then to make ISIL troops retreat. Not to defeat them but just to degrade them as a fighting force. And then what? Have you guys asked yourself that question?

The Iraqi government is dysfunctional and shows no signs of understanding what is necessary.

The people are ready to flee not fight. There is no realistic chance of setting up a government in the area that ISIL control. The place is in chaos and likely to stay that way for a very long time.

Do you guys actually understand what you are supporting?

You have a problem with civil liberties?

Do you support civil liberties? And if so are you willing to vote against the parties that has drafted such laws?The best approach would be to have those that support this war to pay for the cost incurred now and down the line.

I think that would get people thinking about whether or not this is really a good idea.

Again I will try to respond ... no I haven't. 60 plus precent support the war the rest don't yet we will all have to pay for it not just now but in the future.

As far as I am concerned Sinic the present form of democracy has failed us and will continue to fail us.

Here is how I think things should be formatted ...

We have an elected head of state with only perfunctory duties ie meeting other heads of state.

We have three people elected from each state. Their duties are only to oversee government employees.

Everyone is set up with a computer and NBN network. At the beginning of the year people get to nominate projects they want dealt with. Those with the most support get the highest priority.

People then get to nominate which budget measures they wish to put their tax dollar towards. If not enough money is gotten to do all the projects then bad luck.

While I suspect this concept will never get up I am voicing my complete distain for the present system. And I think its about time we the people developed a backbone and said enough is enough.

You really want a war eh John. How do you think this one will end?

Abbott's goal is to have the ISIL retreating but he doesn't talk about defeating them. Is that good enough for you?


"thought bubbles designed to monopolise the daily news cycle." ...  And this war on terror is doing what?

"Pressed to give some indication of how the Government will measure its success, all Abbott could say was when the Islamic State is "in retreat, not in advance".

How would you measure success in this war?

And when the LNP were in opposition did they pass every measure that Labor put forward?

The Senate isn't suppose to be just a rubber stamp.

Those that have been impacted adversely by their budget.

We lost very few in Iraq, but the Iraqis lost heaps. 

This conflict has all the signs of another Vietnam. A government propped up by the US which is corrupt and dysfunctional. A people that really just want to flee not fight and a very determined enemy.

Supporter of this war how do you see this playing out? There is no talk of nation building. And no talk of a 'defeat' of ISIL, just a degrading of their capabilities.Yep, I agree, at least with the reasons to go to war.

As for China, well they have enough sense not to get involved.

The question though for the backers of this war is how will they define victory?

And at what cost will it be achieved?




Because they feel they look good when they visit the troops?

How long do you reckon before Abbott trots off to where ever our boys and girls are for a photo op?

Maybe he'll have a shirt with "Captain Team Australia" on for the pics.

Abbott likes to keep secrets. 

You are correct to a point. Abbott's only misstep was to say something to the point that women wearing burka's make him feel uncomfortable. 

Like why would he say that? I suspect he hasn't met such a woman especially seeing that a 'burka' is a blue Muslim garment worn by women in Afghanistan.

The other point that could be made is that he hasn't kept LNP members in line over the issue. He is the PM and having Ms Bishop and others rabbit on over this topic shows a lack of control over the party.

But heck things could be worse. He could have sent our troops off to fight in a war without end.




I don't think we will ever find out if what you say is true. 

When you look at what is available from either side she seems as good as any of the others but her age and sex will keep her out of ever having a chance to prove it.

I don't understand what Australians have against their politicians showing their skills on the international scene. It doesn't make sense.

 
If the markets are in for a bumpy ride then so is the economy ... usually some 6 to 9 months after there is a drop in the market.

The question that should be on people's minds is how is the LNP's efforts to take money out of the economy actually going to help.

"You have it completely upside down as usual and think the recipients are more entitled to it than the people earning it."

Well ... er, no. Having lived the life in a society that tries its best to do things the way in which you describe I've found that such an approach leads to divisiveness and class warfare.

I've found that building a society that looks after those in need helps us all. I guess I believe in Team Australia. And as is often said there is no 'I' in the word team.

Corny, but true.


"will the government (either persuasion) have any choice?" ... I don't see why not. Our debt level is very modest. 

Yes we will pay more to service that debt but the choice as I see it is to grow the economy or starve it.

If we have a significant increase in unemployment, I've read that it could go up to 10%, there will be even further decline in our incoming revenue plus more demand on the expenditures.

Interesting point, is Australia an "artificially wealthy country"?

Maybe it is my own circumstances I am not sure but I have never felt poor in Australia while I have numerous times in the USA. So I really don't want to go down the path a slicing and dicing 'entitlements' because I see that as heading down a slippery USA style slope.

I totally agree that people should make a real effort to take control of their debt, Australians really doing some heavy lifting in that area. And be smart. If you have investments which are keeping you up at night get rid of them now.



I agree. The only real solution is a political one. When the Middle East stops killing each other because they are Shia or Sunni they can then start to form government's that actually reflect the base problem,. As long as there are ruling classes, kings war lords and the rest there will always be a terrorist group forming.

When Jan makes the statement "Australians should be proud that they have joined an international coalition" ... I feel sick. 

Soon the lust for war will wear off and we will find ourselves in a conflict without end.

You find it strange that people opposed to this war want to take in those that are worst affected by its horrors?  What a strange statement.

You want to solve problems? There is a real big one that has been happening in the Congo for the last 20 years. More then 5 and a half million people have died. More then in the Vietnam, Afghanistan and Iraq wars combined.

Women and children are being abused at least as much as in Iraq. While the UN is involved they don't have the force large enough to end the conflict but do you even know about it?

Has Abbott ever noted the horror?

Do we send any aid of any sort?

We are now entering a war with the only hope is that we can make ISIL a less affective fighting force. The goal is not to 'defeat' them as such just to degrade their capabilities.

I have no idea how long Australia will be there. And there may well come a time when we can walk away, kind of, but the root cause of terrorist groups will remain. The inability of the Arab states to set up an inclusive government.


Except ISIL have cotton onto this and will be blending into the general population.

To degrade is one thing, yes that is quite possible. To defeat? Well that is another totally unlikely outcome.

We never defeated al Qaeda and we won't defeat these guys either. We will just spread them over the rest of Africa and the world.Security is the only issue I have concerning the wearing of the burka in areas where such things are of issue.

If I came into a bank with my face covered I think they would have security concerns. Coming into the area of parliament might be slightly different. Maybe they have procedures in place for such occasions but I would think the unveiling in front of a female officer and the showing of identity papers would be enough.

Abbott stumbled over this issue. He should have thought more and talked less until he had a better grasp of what it all meant.


Does seem like we are being ruled by focus groups. 

The areas of concern for Abbott is how the war goes, how the economy flies and if he can ever regain the trust of the voter.

His big hope is that Shorten continues to be uninspiring.

I think there is some truth to what you say. Government's lose elections but is would be nice to think that the other side had some actual hope of doing better.

But then surely Labor couldn't do worse ... could they?


Actually it would be nice if we could just find a few adults to run government.

Someone either said or recently wrote that if the politicians were held to the same requirements of those in the work place they'd all would be done for their rudeness. People shouldn't be talking to each other the way these guys do.
I know it is depressing. If we actually had an opposition there might be reason for some hope.

If the last Labor government was a train wreck then what do you call the Abbott government? A catastrophe? 

The result of Abbott's actions will start  to really be felt in 2015 and look out for 2016. How does 10% unemployment sound?

Is this a second Tiananmen? ... good question. 

On the probably side is that China doesn't take kindly to such expressions of protest by its citizens.

On the maybe not side is that we are talking about a society that does have a lot more outside contact with the rest of the world, plus it has a history of some freedoms.

Interesting situation. I am glad I don't live in Hong Kong.

"Something will be done.", except for the first home buyers.Anything that hides the identity of a person in an area like the parliament or a bank I would support, for the obvious reasons of security.

In public no. Its no one's business other then the person wearing the clothing or helmet or whatever.

"a pure fantasy beat up by xenophobes" ... I think you are over reacting. As I think Abbott overacted when he said he'd rather not see women wearing a niqab or other face covering garments in public.

Except that when a person chooses to do something as obviously as harmful as smoking they cause stress on our medical system and harm to those close to them.

I quit some 27 years ago. It was really hard but boy I am glad I did.I've got the best option ... get the heck out of Iraq. How many times do we need to make the same mistake?

From now on every time there are photos of the women and children killed, every time there are scenes of chaos and destruction, every time there is a Australian killed because of this conflict I will lay the blame squarely at your feet and the others that support this war, Ben.

Laobr's support of the this war and the new secrecy laws has lost me their support. 

Did you read what I wrote? The answer is YES they have.

I am looking for an Independent in the next Federal and State elections.

Same old same old how can you take the moral high ground yea, yea, yea. If you lot had listened before you backed the invasion of Iraq we might well not be in this situation.

You want to invade somewhere? Try the Congo.  There has been a war going on in that country for at the last 15 years. Over 5 million killed with no end in sight. Plenty of time to get involved as well. What a hero you could be to solve that countries problems. 

This is an Middle Eastern conflict. It will only be solved by  idle Eastern countries. The situation will only be made worse if once again western countries force their solutions.

A moderate member of IS, hmmm.

At the end of the day Islamic extremist will continue to bred because the ground is made so fertile by the intervention of western countries in the middle east, the hatred the Sunni's and Shia's have for each other AND the types of governments that have been in power in that area forever.

The worse thing we can do is to help disperse one terrorist group (like the west did with al Qaeda) across the globe while yet another grows to take their place.

We have just joined a war with no end, good one guys.


How well did it go stopping al Qaeda when we invaded Afghanistan? Helped spread them all over Africa and the Middle East. The second Invasion of Iraq really helped them get a foothold.

The question you don't even dare to try and answer is the very root cause of the conflict. You are never going to end extremists unless the governments of the Middle East change to become inclusive. You will never end the Sunni's hatred of Shia's or their hatred in return by dropping bombs on them.

The worse thing we can do is what we are doing, forcing ourselves into what is an Islamic fight. Our values and way of life are part of the problem.

But what the heck. You want a war to stop? One that has been going on for over 15 years? One that has killed more then the wars in Vietnam, Afghanistan and Iraq II together? Try the Congo. 

Over 5 million killed with no end it sight.

Go over there and drop some bombs. Who knows it might help.

That could well be but speaking for myself Labor's lack of backbone on the issues of the new 'security' laws and Australia's involvement in the Iraq war has lost my vote.

I'm now looking for an Independent that has a conscience.

You are worry about subs from Japan?

Worry about a LNP and ALP that give away our rights out of fear while the ISIL faithful said I told you so.

And while you are at it worry about the Federal cuts that will be made to fund this endless war in Iraq.



When you look at security in the US one has to shake one's head. There have been several occasions especially of late where the security detail supposedly there to protect the President have failed miserably. 

There are the well documented cases of classified information walking out of the country's classified network.

How many times has the USA 'backed' the wrong fighters only to have to destroy them.

How well did it go the last time Australia invaded Iraq? Was there any commission into that folly?

ISIL is destroying our freedoms, which they distain, without setting a foot on Australian soil. Now I am suppose to believe that these harsher security laws are going to make us safer?

Is there any point when people are going to tell the government and the Labor opposition they don't have our support in their efforts? That we actually think the measures they are using are counter productive?

Lord help us because our politicians sure aren't.

First off when people become more afraid of their government then they do of any threat the nation has a problem and I think that has happened.

Second oversight by responsible people NOT attached to the government but totally independent.

Third transparency. What has happened any why.

Fourth look at a map. Where is Iraq and where is Australia? Why you and others think its a good idea to be involved in this conflict is beyond me.

Fifth if we are to do anything it is to try and pressure the Arab countries to address the real cause of terrorism ... their failure to set up governments that are inclusive and are separated from religion. 

"but whether it is wise" ... no it probably isn't but then if there is no other body able to start an investigation into government practices then what choice do we have? 

We should all agree that politicians of any persuasion will act in their own interest, they are human, its natural. There should be some body not controlled by any government that overseas our leaders and report on their actions every year.

This body should be untouchable, well funded without any possibility of that funding being cut. It should be staffed with the most unbiased people the nation can find.

Yep, a dream but that is what should happen. What will happen is very little unless people protest and we won't will we? Too much like work.

"impartial and disinterested" ... yes it was and probably improbable to organise.




Honest answer? I don't know but why not find out?

"current overblown levels" ... against the levels in private broadcasting which gives us such quality programs as Big Brother and The Block.

The only Australian made TV worth watching is on ABC and SBS, the rest is made in the UK or the USA and a lot of that is junk.


Abbott made a promise, no cuts to ABC or SBS. You've broken that and other promises. Don't blame ABC management for their decision on what goes and what stays. The fault is squarely on your lap.


"the stability of the finance sector.", we are worried about the stability of the financial sector. These are the guys making billions and paying their CEO's hundreds of millions.

No concern expressed regarding the pain this will cause our young people looking to buy into the housing market. Good one guys. Obviously the age of entitlements hasn't ended for the banks.

So I assume what you are saying is that with fewer houses being built cost would come down.There are, however, the infrastructure costs of all new housing. This is born by councils many of whom in NSW at least are broke.

The councils to help pay for such costs charge builders like wounded bulls for permission to build. These costs will remain. While it would be an interesting exercise I don't think just doing away with negative gearing would be the total answer.




Councils charge builders of whatever types to put in place the infrastructure needed with new developments. This of course gets passed onto the builders and then buyers.

Investment properties as I understand it do tend to be in new apartments, off the plan sales are suppose to be strong in the problem areas, Sydney and Melbourne.  

If we remove the incentives to speculate I am not convinced that with the fall of investment properties that housing prices would go down. There certainly is a part of the present price increase that are due to demand not being met by supply.

As far as investment opportunities from what I've been reading the world is a washed with money looking for a quick buck I doubt that will change. A bubble in one area when it burst will still cause a lot of pain.

I guess in short what I am saying is that I am not against curtailing negative gearing but I am not sure it will help oh and good luck getting the pollies to take that step anyway.

"suddenly they don't seem so crazy," ... or more likely Stevens doesn't know what else to do?

Raising interest rates would be off the table because of the damage it would do so what else is there?

There was some economist predicting 10% unemployment in the coming years. Talk about being between a rock and a hard place. But don't worry when the Abbott government takes away all those welfare entitlements she'll be right.


 
I think it is slightly more complicated then just dumping stamp duty though that would help.

As I understand it local councils are responsible for the infrastructure to support housing estates. That is expensive. 

In NSW very few councils are in a healthy economic state so these council's try to place the costs for such infrastructures onto to the builders. Now this is reasonable but the end impact is that such costs greatly impact on the prices. 

I would think that part of the answer would be higher densities but maybe not as popular as the once beloved quarter acre block and McMansion type house.


It is a quandary where to stick ones money these days. Savings earn nothing. The market is in the process of a major correction and they are saying the housing market is due for a crash (maybe).

I look for liquidity so tend to go for shares with only a little housing and I'm damn if I know if my approach is correct or not. The only think I can say is that I don't depend on the government for a penny, so I'm happy enough.

To be blunt I have no time for either Christianity, Islam, or any religion.

As far as I am concerned they are just another male way of controlling others.

Having said that I don't believe in the persecution of people because they have made the mistake of following one religion or another.

Peace and love were the calling cards of my generation and no religion was necessary to hold those values.


If it is true that there is a growing concern regarding climate change in Australia where were they when measures were put in place to combat it here?

While it looks to me that Rudd was five years too early Abbott is now at the other end with no where to go. Having painted himself into a corner on this topic it would take a major back flip to extradite himself.

Then of course he might just get us involved in yet another war to distract the voter and introduce a carbon tax by stealth.

Who knows we are now in the position of having an unprincipled leader and an leader of the opposition looking for a backbone. What a mess.

"Climate change ( not a normal fluctuation) is happening - but it is NOT caused by human activity." There may well be an element of nature taking place but to deny that billions of humans don't impact on the environment ... well that is denial.
Agreed.

The sad thing is the Australian form of democracy with its supposed 'freedoms' has been shown to be a weak. To believe that we need such changes to make us feel safe proves we lack faith in our form of governance.

A government that is unwilling to tell us what actions they are taking on our behalf is not a type of government I can support.


Why would Labor wave these measures through? Votes, they don't want to be seen as weak on terror.

The Rudd government's real weakness its real failing was not having a commission of inquiry into Iraq war number 2. Supposedly they didn't do that because they thought it would spur on the LNP to take revenge.

So we are now embarked on yet another war in Iraq with no real public understanding of why we are anywhere near this conflict.

Well we differ but agree that we shouldn't be involved in this war. The problem is we are and for it looks like a very long time.


How many more civil liberties are we going to have to give up before it is all over and even more important will we ever get them back?"Attacking IS with the total agreement of the Iraqi government is NOT a war." ... not a war? Even by your definition one State taking on another the present situation fits that bill.

IS declares itself a State and Iraq is supposed to be one. Australia is acting as an ally. What could possibly make it different? Other then it is a gods awful mess? 

I guess one could laugh if it wasn't such a bloody waste of life.All depends doesn't it what sort of politicians we end up with but I do agree it looks to me that there is a breaking down of party politics.

I wouldn't be very keen on a Libertarian approach but am looking for an Independent to vote for.

Even during the quiet times the idea of a bill of rights didn't get a look in, though I support the idea.

There isn't the political will or in fact a leader willing to lead the nation down that path. Heck we can't even get these guys to put the recognition of Aboriginals into the constitution.



Actually I am picking principle over sides because the Labor party for all their shame has backed Abbott on these laws.

So what were you saying Rosie?

And I am saying I am against the laws enacted BY BOTH the LNL and Labor.


I wouldn't care if these laws were enacted by the Greens I would be against them.


Is that clear enough for you?I'll try again ... I wouldn't care if my mother put these laws up I would oppose them. 

Is that clear enough?


And stay in power they probably will. With oppositions like Shorten's version of Labor, the Greens and OMG Palmer what do people have to choose from?

My only hope at this point is that a Independent is available that I can feel holds some of my values.

"to know about (possible) terrorists in our midst but not about boat arrivals." ... good point, what is going on here that people support such an approach?





"trying to protect Australia" ... do you really believe that? 

Thousands of children are abused every year, some die from that abuse. 

If they had been abused by 'terrorists'  all bloody hell would have broken loose but they aren't. They are abused in good homes and bad ones, they are abused in foster care and on the streets. It happens every day week in week out.

So while we can afford 800 police to arrest one person on terror charges we can't find the resources to protect these our most vulnerable.

And I am blaming the government and the parties in opposition for failing these kids.

  

Where is the bipartisan support to take steps to address this very real danger?
