I don't buy into the whole 'cult of the leader' thing.  

I reckon the free-falling popularity of both major parties has more to do with their shared neoliberal agenda than it does with personalities.

Both parties have been treating the public like fools and selling us out for too long - we've all had enough now and want a fair suck of the sav.

What people want is not just a 'leader', but a leader with policies that are actually in Australian interests rather than the interests of a handful of elites and foreigners.
Exactly, Abbott is the same narrow ideological warrior he has always been.

Australia still has no climate change policy, refugees are still locked in concentration camps, Abbott still lied about cuts, etc..

Furthermore, Abbott's response to the incident isn't the same thing as good leadership as the author claims; rather, it's just another manifestation of his outmoded cold war warrior mentality. 

I feel for the victims of the accidental shooting down of that plane, but that doesn't change the fact that the USA and other NATO members have been pursuing an ideological crusade against Russia that has inflamed matters.  

People in glass houses . . .  
Abbott knows Australians find the outmoded neoliberal ideology that guides his domestic policies repellant and against their interests; so he only speaks truthfully about a matter when he thinks he can get away with it.

Abbott is a savvy opportunist and he reckons he can get away with being rabidly anti-Russian - he didn't just become anti-Russian when the plane was accidentally shot down.  

Maybe Abbott thinks we are all xenophobic, or maybe he reckons Australians haven't managed to unburden themselves of outmoded cold war conditioning (reds under the bed!), or maybe he reckons Australians are by and large ignorant of the fact that the situation in the Ukraine is as much the fault of outmoded, aggressive and extremely risky western neoliberal/conservative strategy to contain and break/exploit Russia as it is due to Russian resistance to same so he thinks he can get away with being so partisan. 

Whatever the case may be Abbott has demonstrated that he's an attack dog for conservative/neoliberal agendas and he's straining for a fight.  God help us all if he slips the leash because unlike refugees or unemployed youths I reckon Russia can bite back as hard as it takes.I'm sure the Russians don't really care about what Abbott says and your probably also right that they regard Australia as a US lapdog.

But that doesn't change the fact that it would suck if Australia and our neocon/neoliberal puppet masters manage to inflame the situation in the Ukraine into a full-blown East vs. West war.

I'm not as convinced as you seem to be that Australia is a totally insignificant player internationally either.  Could we win a war with Russia?  Probably not, but I reckon we could play a pretty big role in starting one if hate, fate and circumstances work against us.

I seem to recall, for example, that a relatively minor event provided the catalyst for WWI.  

Australia mightn't have much military power, but we have a pretty big economy, and a voice that we seem to be adding it to what I fear is a growing pro-war chorus.Yep.  Abbot has a gift for playing to the lowest common denominator.  

Everyone feels sorry for the victims of this tragedy.

However, this government's deeds still reek of lies and betrayal.  Nothing that has happened has changed that.  

Abbott is kidding himself if he thinks he can get Australians to support him by drawing attention to an 'enemy' that he hopes everyone will hate more than him.   

The Russians didn't trash our country - Abbott and Hockey did - if the Liebrals and their supporters think a few psychological tricks can somehow transfer the blame for the status quo in Australia over to the Russians I reckon they are in for a rude shock.I'd rather not relinquish my any more of my liberty thanks - the govt. has taken quite enough of that away from me already.

If the Libs want to strip away more freedom they should take it to an election alongside the rest of their hidden agenda.

There's no sure defense against terrorism anyway, in much the same way as there's no sure defense against an assassin who is willing to exchange his/her life for the life of their target. 

The best defense is probably to be nice to other countries and domestic minorities/people who may be feeling disenfranchised and treat them fairly, equitably, and with respect, but I don't see a big drive for that from the Liberals.  Instead, they seem to be raving, cold war style, about nasty Russians etc. and the need for new repressive and invasive powers to fight fifth columnists/terrorists domestically.  

It seems to me that sometimes when you hammer people too hard they don't break, but are forged into something even more dangerous and I reckon the Libs could probably do more to make the world a safer place by dropping the tough guy routine than by launching operation 'Team Australia'. 

I note that Russia has now been terminated Australian imports - a very disturbing sign of international tension that could potentially escalate into full blown war.  Team Australia is good at winning medals in the Olympics, but is it equipped to win WW3?

Is this really a good time for the Liberal government to be adding more fear and negativity to things?   Or could it be that the Lib's ideology is out of lock-step with the times; in much the same way that it is on climate change for example?
JoeBloggs, it seems to me that metadata is in fact useful for building a picture of someone's personal life, their interests, contacts, dispositions etc., even if it doesn't go into specific content details.  

In fact, it seems to me that the data must be useful for building profiles of people because otherwise the government wouldn't want it.Maybe not, but I think the ABS uses census data in significantly different ways to what the government is proposing here.  My understanding is that ABS collects large data sets, 'homogenizes' the data, and then uses the homogenized data to provide meaningful population or regional level statistics - the process is designed to protect the privacy of individuals while providing decision makers with useful data.

The spies, on the other hand, specifically want to be able to resolve the data picture down to the individual level.

Let's say for some reason the spies are interested in your marriage, what kind of techniques might they use to derive some relevant qualitative and quantitative information?  

They could start by counting the number of times you have used particular search terms and looking for patterns.  Lots of terms like 'divorce', 'impact of divorce on family', 'divorce lawyer', 'settlement' etc. might provide clues about your mindset.  A subsequent pick up in search terms or visits to singles or contact sites might help track where you are at with your divorce.  Then there are the calls you make, the duration and times of the calls, your Facebook activity (who have you friended/un-friended?), the names of your Facebook and other contacts, their interests and data profiles, shared interests etc.  Maybe your metadata profile could be cross referenced with a database of known profiles/categories to further drill you down?

And of course your metadata profile could be analyzed alongside other databases such as registers of births, deaths and marriages, maybe tax and social security data depending on data sharing rules between agencies.  And let's not forget Dr Google. 

I reckon with enough metadata points, coupled with other data, the government could start to build a pretty intimate picture of you and your personal life.  Would it be complete?  No.  But what knowledge is?  

But let's not forget that the spies also want to reverse the burden of proof - you will be found guilty of whatever until proven innocent - so the spies analysis doesn't even have to be valid for them to act against you, instead it will be up to you to challenge the state, with all of its resources, to prove your innocence of potentially grave accusations. 

Overall, it's starting to sound pretty scary to me.I wouldn't be surprised at all.Sorry, but there's no economic barrier for wealthy kids to attend public school, but the opposite isn't true for poor kids.

If you can't afford to send your kids to a private school then you should send them to a public school and stop expecting the rest of us to subsidize the class aspirations that you have for your children. 

And if you're so concerned about equity take a moment to consider that poorer people pay a greater proportion of their income in tax than the wealthy - it's the poor who are being fleeced the most tax money for everyone's benefit.

It seems to me that anyone who is truly interested in equity would lobby for the wealthy to pay more tax AND pay for their own lifestyle decisions/aspirations instead of looking for further ways to take more than their fair share from the public purse.So you think your occupation somehow determines your  intelligence?  

You seem to have fallen into the vain trap of assuming that only people with occupations that you value, i.e. people such as yourself, are intelligent.

I thought lawyers were supposed to be more rigorous and rational in their thinking than that.
I also support the new spy and anti-terrorist laws; I have always supported the new laws and this government, and so has my wife, my children, and all of my relatives and friends.  

I would also like to take this opportunity to unreservedly apologise for any and all offence that I may have given our new draconian overlords at any stage.

I humbly request that you please don't get the CIA to kill me on the basis of my metadata, or take me away in the middle of the night.

As proof of my loyalty I take this chance to inform on my suspicious neighbor, who I think is a Muslim.  Society will be safer if he is taken away for questioning and indefinite detention somewhere far from invasive media and public attention.

Should people be starting to rethink where they live?  Good question.

In a world where democide (death by government) was the leading cause of non-natural death in the 20th century I reckon people have a right to be scared if laws like guilty until proven innocent come to pass.

It seems to me that a legal mechanism like guilty until proven innocent provides a way for an unscrupulous government to take arbitrary, unfair, cruel actions against not just individuals, but against whole classes or sections of the community.

Could an Australian government ever begin 'disappearing' people in the same kind of way that has happened so frequently overseas?  Well, some people have questioned whether people have already disappeared under this government - although they don't seem to have reached the murderous stage yet.

Our government seems to be teetering on the edge of an abyss in more ways than one; they are desperately unpopular, they have demonstrated that they are willing to lie (totalitarian style) whenever it suits, they are secretive, they have offshore 'camps', and now they are seeking repressive and invasive new powers.

I wonder if this is the kind of way tyranny has taken hold in other places.I think you need to be more specific about your position on God and lying here stupendous.

Are you saying parents lie to their kids that there is no God?  Or are you saying that parents lie by saying there is a God?  Or do you think parents lie when they say that they are not sure if there is or isn't a God?  

Furthermore, do you think parents lie to their kids when they tell them that they have been gifted with unique access to the 'truth' and that different beliefs are 'untruthful' because they are not derived from the same ultimate and perfect source of truth that only particular indoctrinated people, such as themselves, can access?

As an aside, I'm not convinced that repetition converts lies into truth so easily. Instead, it seems to me that truth is the essence of a thing and that as such it should be about as easy to transmute a lie into truth as it is to transmute lead into gold.I reckon people have woken up to the evils of neoliberalism now Mitor and they are now starting to get really angry at the exploitation they are being subjected to.

Indeed, this is probably a big part of the reason why the IPA wants a change of government - Just think of how far back Abbott is taking their cause.  

Come to think of it, I'm of two minds now about whether Abbott should stay or go.  

On the one hand I cannot stand the way Abbott and his mates are kicking the poor while rewarding the rich and I cannot abide their lies, conservatism, willful pig ignorance of science and hatred of nature, but on the other hand I want them to stay because they are doing such a stand up job of unwittingly digging neoliberalism's graveSupposedly Abbott backed down on Bolt's pro-bigot law changes because he wants to build some kind of 'national unity' ticket for his new internet spying and surveillance laws.

But that's not to say Abbott's not a bully; more that he's a paranoid bully who wants to put all of us under state observation. 

Does anyone really believes this government, with its demonstrated lack of scruples and credibility, should be trusted with vast new spy powers? 

Just the thought of it makes my skin crawl.Without doubt the economic ideas of the Libs and Labs are failing to mesh with reality.

Everyone knows now that we have/are running into the limits of the polluted, depleted and degraded petri dish we all live on, so change is now inevitable.

But the failure of our leaders to behave morally and with character is also a big driver of today's crapulence.

Every time the Libs lie or swindle it's because they know they are about to do the wrong thing by people and/or nature.  The reality is that nobody (not the Libs or the Labs) can get away with doing the wrong thing forever without getting overwhelmed by the consequences of countless evil decisions.

I reckon it's time to press the reset button for this government (the pathological liars really are just awful), but I also reckon that you are right and that we need to go further and pull the pin on the outmoded economic/political ideology of the last millennium that they represent as well.You know, some people understand intuitively in their guts, in their DNA, that it's wrong to put everything up for sale; let's call those people 'Humans'.

And you know that other people are happy to commoditize everything; let's call those people 'Reptiles'.

Now I submit that Reptiles have some kind of as yet un-diagnosed mental disorder.

Because you just know there's something wrong when nothing, even children, are held too precious to sell.No AE it's not obvious; in fact, I think you are probably plain wrong.  

I really doubt that most interest only loans are taken on investment properties because of rent profit potential.  If rent profits were the aim of the game wouldn't those investors be seeking to 'positively gear' their properties by paying them off? 

Instead, it seems more likely to me that interest only investors are speculating on future property price rises to make their profits.Here's an idea to lower the price of housing and associated risks; we could ban the private ownership of dwellings and land.

Everyone could rent their property from the government instead.Actually AE, I think the idea owes its origins more to ruggedly individualistic free-market style anarchist thinking than it does to soviet style central planning.

I stumbled across the idea while reading about the successful W?rgl Experiment that was undertaken during the Great Depression.  The experiment was based on the monetary ideas of the egalitarian anarchist/economist/reformer Silvio Gesell who also proposed an economic model called 'Freiwirtschaft' - which translated from German means 'Free Economy'.

The Freiwirtschaft system is underpinned by free money, free land (no ownership, just rent) and free trade.  Now this seems more like a recipe for equality and competition to me rather than state control; so I don't think it shares much in common with Soviet style economics as per your comment.

Come to think of it, on the basis of your comment AE I would have thought that you would be keen for more economic freedom rather than less?  Just imagine, for example, the benefits to society if everyone was free to be rewarded on the basis of their personal attributes and endeavours without any land inheritance distorting the picture.

If you are scared by the notion of government involvement, which is always a necessary evil, perhaps rents could be determined via an auction system ? that way it would be the market rather than the government that made sure everyone paid fair rent.  Auction systems are in vogue with economists at the moment for just that kind of reason.   

Or are you not so much a fan of fixing economic problems and increasing everyone's liberty as you are of maintaining our desperately unfair, economically unstable, anti-competitive, and environmentally destructive system?
I was also a teenager in the Keating era.  

My recollection is that the amount of effort I put in made no difference to my prospects whatsoever.  I made lots of trips to the CES to look at the job cards on the boards, I even got a whole bunch of interviews, but they always seemed to want people who were better qualified than me and there were always plenty of applicants.

Back then, I didn't survive by getting proper work, but by working for cash money at my local pub and topping it up with welfare money.

Through the pub, and other connections, I scored other cash jobs for employers who expected young people like I was back then to work for small beer in the expectation that our dole money would make up the difference between the amount they were willing to pay us in wages and the amount that we needed to survive.

Even so, I still managed to work my way into the red and I'm sure there were plenty of kids like me.

There's nothing quite like getting exposed to violence, drugs, booze, exploitation, carcinogenic and teratogenic chemicals and asbestos in various jobs as a teenager and in one's early twenties to make one aware of the exploitative nature of our society.

And all the while there was the constant temptation to get into dealing drugs or other petty crimes like my mates.  Who knows, if I hadn't been able to game the system a little bit (which I reckon was also gaming me) then I reckon I would've become a proper criminal too.

And maybe I should've. God only knows what damage I've caused to my kids' DNA through the stuff I absorbed on site;  it was rare for me to get proper safety gear back then - working class kids like me were disposable and it seems like we still are.

Put in more effort you say?  Don't be insulting I say.I think your logic is faulty.  Not all job seekers are equal.  So if there is strong competition for all jobs it doesn't follow that simply applying for more jobs will guarantee everyone a place.

A wiser approach might be to focus on improving the job seekers skill set so they can better compete, but even so, there are still not enough jobs to go around.

30 odd years of neoliberalism have seen many of our industries go offshore, and then there is the impact of increasing automation from technological innovations on jobs to consider - as time goes on there will be less and less jobs.   

The upshot of this is that we need to be talking about transforming our society more broadly; preferably by taking a more humane approach such as introducing a guaranteed basic income for everyone (and capping wages) rather than merely demonizing our fellow Australians who have fallen victim to an irrevocably changed and ever changing world. 
 
However, as with climate change, rather than do anything sensible the Liberals have once again shown themselves to be outmoded dinosaurs - and we all know what happens to a species that cannot or will not adapt.I've always paid more than 10% tax.

The rich talk a good game about entrepreneurialism and how it gets things moving, but whenever progress requires taking risk it always seems to fall on the public (government) to pay for it and to get things going due to 'market failure' (read total lack and failure of entrepreneurialism).

But then that's the neoliberal way for you - privatize profits and socialize risks/costs.TGU

It's never always been everyone for themselves.  Humans are social animals, and we always have been.

If there are no jobs, and the unemployed are provided no money or forced off of welfare by stupid policies, how else do you think many will survive other than by crime?

I reckon there are plenty of people who'd rather become say 'entrepreneurial' home invasion specialists rather than dumpster divers - there is more dignity in crime.

And when it comes to the "the world owing you a living" it seems to me that it's the rich who are the ones that believe they are entitled to more than their fair share.

Come to think of it, I reckon there are plenty of people who would disagree that the rich are any better than criminals - I know it often seems to me that they only exist through crime.  So what makes one criminal lifestyle 'okay' and not another?  Well, that seems to be decided by politics rather morality/ethics. 

I seem to recall that Jesus wasn't a big fan of the rich either; I think he encouraged them to be less greedy, selfish and exploitative - so I'm in good company.  

I guess some things never change; although I think it's reasonable to expect more of people/politicians who claim to be Christian.
Hi traveller

With all your experience then shouldn't you be out there advocating for people not being forced into deciding between one criminal occupation and another?

Why not use your voice for good?Andie

The Liebrals don't give a hoot about the future, so don't even bother going down that road.

Anyway, your grandkids will have bigger problems to worry about than the national balance sheet - nobody will have much time for reflection in a polluted, degraded, and climate changed world.

Most everyone will probably be too busy dying prematurely.
Questions about who gets to own what and who gets what share of the spoils are important, but the narrow focus on same is not helpful anymore.
 
The Libs and Labs are both wings of the same lame duck.If the Libs/Labs continue to make policy on the basis of their misguided "insider opinion about "the mob"" we are so rooted.

Anyway, the politicians have it wrong and are projecting their own shallow, superficial and greedy worldview on the rest of us.

The truth is that we don't want what they want - that's why membership is falling for both parties and why Australians don't like them and aren't interested in them.

They need to wake up and get with the new millennium.  The big issues now are not just who gets what share of the spoils, but how to survive the deleterious impacts of industrial technological civilization.

Besides, most of us don't really have a lot invested in the status quo so I'm sure most people would be willing to try something different if they believed it would be in their interests - and it so clearly is.  

If the politicians really want to win hearts, minds, and votes, they will give up on their outmoded ideology and start acting in the people's interests by working to transform our civilization into something sustainable (de-growth, steady state economy, etc.).


There's no shortages of armchair warriors on the right it seems either.

At least the armchair warriors on the left don't want to send my children to get killed for a poll boost.  So excuse me if I like them better.

Operation 'Bring them Home'; oh please, the victims deserve more respect than that.  Besides, I'm sure the families don't want AFP officers put in unnecessary danger in their name.Agreed.  The budget is so awful that only a snake-oil salesman would try to sell it.  A decent person would have refused.   

Furthermore, Hockey must have played a key role in developing the budget - the finished product speaks volumes about the bad character and warped priorities of its architects."People power, per se, is empty."

I don't agree - instead I reckon the mob rules whenever it wants to.  Sure the govt. has the power and the money, but the mob has the numbers.

Besides, even aristocrats live in a society and are dependent on it for their existence; once society stops supporting them and demands change even aristocrats must comply 'or else'.

I agree with you though that both Libs and Labs are running on an outmoded political/economic ideology - I'd even go further and say that they are yes men who have sold us out to the highest bidders. 

It seems to me that if solutions aren't offered by our leaders that the pressure will build until it explodes.  Then we will definitely see some new ideas, and maybe a bloodbath.The yank

I won't argue that the Libs are the worse option out of the two major parties, and I agree that there are differences between their policies, but when I take a step back and look at the bigger picture I see that both parties share a lot of the same suckworthy ideological ground.

Both major parties have made neoliberal decisions that have concentrated wealth in the hands of the already rich at the expense of the poor, both have sold off public assets, wrecked our industries, locked people in 'camps' etc., and both have helped disenfranchise everyone with the system and stripped us of our confidence in its leadership.   
 
A person would have to have been asleep for the last thirty years not to realize that both the Libs and the Labs are on the same page when it comes to neoliberalism.  

I've heard plenty of the same wrongheaded mantra from both sides over the years about the benefits to Australia of free trade, competition with the rest of the world, small government, removal of regulations/protections, de-fanged unions etc. and that we should all defer to neoliberal market and money gods rather than make values based decisions because it's more 'efficient' and so on and so forth. 

I also cannot overlook the point that both the Libs and Labs have failed to come to terms with the widely known and established fact that we are living in a finite system and that we cannot grow forever without eating or polluting ourselves to death.

Neither the Libs nor the Labs have proposed/implemented realistic climate change polices.

It's known now that preventing dangerous climate change will require forgoing endless economic growth, but you won't hear anything about this from either major party because they are locked in permanent ideological psychosis - or maybe they just find it easier to overlook the rape of our planet and future generations as they amble off to collect their pay.

Sure, I'm more sympathetic to Labor's spin on things than the Libs, but that's not saying much given that I reckon the Liberals are just plain evil. 
I reckon that a lack of intelligence and outmoded economic/political ideology are both big factors in why things are cactus, but I would also like to add a lack of morality to the list. 

Our politicians shouldn't be let off the hook for bad ideology/low intelligence; if the politicians cannot work out a new and better way to run the show and solve problems, and if they are moral people, then they should rethink their occupations and step aside for people who can.

But they haven't left and they won't.  Why?  Well, that's because they are really just yes men who have no scruples and who are happy to sell out 99% of us for the benefit of the 1% who have bought them.

Do you reckon that's more a failure of intelligence, ideology or character?So we've become a plutocracy huh; well that explains a lot.  

The rot has really set in now.I have had the same thought myself JessC.  It won't be long until the conversation about national service starts to come up more often.

Just wait for crime to spike, which it must if the young have no money, and then some crafty Lib politicians will have their (totally unforeseen of course) eureka moment. 

It's an old trick - create a problem, then create the solution to the unnecessary self-inflicted problem.

Politicians always have to be seen to be doing something - if there is nothing to do they generate their own problems just so they can be seen to be doing something.  Budget crisis anyone?

Having something to screech about has been the hallmark of tyrants everywhere, but are there any other totalitarian characteristics that this government might share with them? 

Well, lets tick some boxes shall we?  Repressive and invasive spy laws - check.  'Camps' for helpless 'undesirable' elements - check.  Pathological lying in best totalitarian style - check.  Morally bankrupt and sociopathic political/economic ideology - check.  Simplistic and jingoistic in-group vs. out-group propaganda - check.  Beating up a climate of fear so people welcome Big Brother - check. 

The growing list of similarities between this government and various totalitarian regimes is frightening.   

At this rate it won't be long before the Abbott 'Team Australia Youth Movement' starts stomping around in jackboots, blue ties and skull badges.Well, you won't get me arguing that there isn't some 'bad cop, worse cop' going on.

Both major parties are based on outmoded political/economic ideologies, so I'd be happy to see them both re-invent themselves into something that might have a chance of solving the grave problems that we face these days.  

Until then, it seems to me that the big question is which of the two options will lead us off the cliff and into the abyss faster than the other?  Now, I reckon the Libs take that honour - thanks in large part to their keenness to race to the bottom.Hi Jimmy Necktie

I guess it's just as well that I'm not wedded to either major party then and am keen to explore options.

It's clear to all and sundry that the Libs/Labs beliefs are at odds with physical reality and morality and that retreating deeper into psychosis won't help them or anyone else in the long run; the system needs an upgrade and ultimately it's going to happen.   

It seems to me that the various players can snap out of it, try to adapt and contribute, or become burdensome/irrelevant and go extinct; I don't really care either way.I reckon TA would love to establish a broader prison system Dee, privately owned of course, just like what happens in the USA which provides so much inspiration for the Libs.

In the USA prisoners are used for cheap labour and are charged rent.  Vested interests even lobby for tougher laws and longer sentences to help keep the profits flowing. 

I reckon the Libs think that 99% of the population are nothing but serfs who are born to serve the aristocracy, so of course they would be keen for more repressive laws against the poor and a bigger prison system.   

Time and again the Libs demonstrate that they are takers. Extra burden on the poor while sparing the rich?  Excellent idea say the Libs.  Rob our children of a environmental security for short term profits for the rich?  Excellent idea say the Libs.  And so on and so forth for each and every issue, so why wouldn't the Libs be keen to take freedom away from the poor as well?  

"The Turnbull policy is . . . hardly the giant threat to privacy and liberty that the Abbott and Brandis policy constitutes."

How is the public supposed to trust anything that anyone from the Liberal party says?  

The Liberals have demonstrated time and again that they have NO credibility and cannot be trusted on anything; why should this be any different?


So we are forced to decide between Russia and the USA?  That's our only option and there are no other possibilities? 

Well, I don't think so; for much the same reason that I don't like simplistic forced-choice questionnaires in magazines.  

It seems to me that the world just isn't a binary black vs. white, yes or no, or goodies vs. baddies kinda place.  Instead, it seems to me that there are multiple ways to think about things and to solve/avoid problems.  People just need to stop being lazy and start looking for them.I won't be surprised if Abbott lets Putin come.  Hell, Abbott wouldn't even let the fate of the human race get in the way of his pro-growther agenda - climate change isn't on the G20 program - so why does anyone think that one plane full of innocents would change his priorities?.

If Putin does come all he would need to do would be talk about the need for meaningful action on climate change to make Abbott look like a dangerous anti-human and anti-nature radical crazy - that would put them on level ground.

  
And despite all those rigorous rules the justice system still manages to get it wrong.  

Recently there was David Eastman - who it seems was convicted on the basis of bad evidence.  Or how about Lindy Chamberlain - once again convicted on the basis of bad evidence.

I'm sure there are plenty of other examples too if anyone could be bothered looking for them.

Come to think of it, I reckon it's dead easy for a powerful player, like say a police force or state, to manipulate the legal system to achieve a desired political outcome - all they have to do is plug some confected 'scientific' or 'expert' evidence into the right places in the legal process to accomplish a desired outcome.

It's funny how often what passes for 'expert' opinion or 'scientific' evidence to lawyers/prosecutors/judges etc. (whose legal qualifications are merely glorified arts degrees) later turns out to be plain wrong and how its use in court has created a poor outcome.  All the 'expert' needs to be able to do is fool a handful of legal non-experts to create the desired miscarriage of justice.    

So please forgive everyone if we don't trust a lawyer, rather than a properly qualified person, to determine whether anthropogenic climate change is real or not.  
I like Shelley's Frankenstein.  Not just because it's scary or well written, but because I reckon Shelley was projecting some of her radical father's (the famous William Godwin) optimistic and deeply humanistic ideology when she wrote it.  

Godwin believed, among other things, that people are born innocent and that it's our experiences in the world that shape us into who we are for better or worse - a central theme of Frankenstein.  

Now, Godwin was a utilitarian philosopher and anarchist who lived around the time of the French Revolution and many of his other ideas are also extremely relevant here.  

As a utilitarian, Godwin believed we should behave in a way that maximizes benefits to the many while minimizing the negatives (the Golden Rule); and as an anarchist he thought: "as public opinion develops in accordance with the dictates of reason, so too should political institutions change until, finally, they will wither away altogether, leaving the people to organize themselves into what would be a direct democracy."

Good ideas.  And isn't it interesting that now that we have returned to days of bad governments failing to act in the interests of the many that we find ourselves revisiting them.
 
While it's worth recalling how the problems of extremely bad government were solved in Godwin's days during the French Revolution, Godwin was a pacifist so I doubt he approved or would approve of a repeat performance. Nevertheless, radical action of some kind or other is necessary to avoid anthropogenic climate change so let's look at some of his other ideas.

Godwin believed that technology would ultimately help us meet most/all of our earthly needs and that this would provide us with time to reflect on matters of the spirit/soul etc..  He was optimistic and thought this would incline people to be more humane and communistic in outlook and behavior - a possibility that could still become a reality. 
  
Godwin also argued with Malthus that increasing the wellbeing of all people would enable them to pursue intellectual matters rather than focus on procreation, thereby staving off ecological collapse - another good idea. 

Godwin sure is still relevant. 
 
Indeed, given that the big problems of today are entirely due to the moral failings and bad character of our government and elites I reckon it's time for a renewal of Godwin's ideas with a view to challenging the arrogant, triumphalist, inhumane and anti-nature capitalists who are running the show.

It's time to show them that history isn't over and that the neoliberal status quo isn't the best and only way of organizing our shared human project. 

So yes Sarah, a sequel to Frankenstein is definitely in order; one where the 'monster' slays the vile status quo and ushers in a new golden age.Thanks Stalga.  I'll be sure to look up Robert Pirsig, he sounds like he's onto something.

I agree with you that things will probably get worse before they get better, but once people start thinking and acting like human beings instead of amoral/evil meat-bots it's my hope that good outcomes and rapid change will follow.

I remember reading something by Noam Chomsky where he basically argued that the people who are profiting from and promoting the current abominable system have one thing to fear above all else - and that's the fear of the good example. 

So I guess it's back to basics for me - try to do the right thing, and discourage and shame those who won't.
No, no, no.  Shorten doesn't bring Frankenstein to mind, but Nosferatu the Vampyre as played by Klaus Kinski.

Anyway, Abbott easily makes for a better monster than Shorten, what with his unnatural square gait and the way he holds his arms out away from his body.  But even so, Abbott wouldn't make a good Frankenstein's monster either because he could only really inspire revulsion in his audience rather than sympathy.

I'm afraid Abbott would be better suited to a role where his unpopularity wouldn't ruin but would instead enhance the show.  Maybe he could play a virus?  Or maybe 'Gozer the Destructor' if they ever remake Ghostbusters.Why is it that these scientific tyros concentrate all their energies on climate? 

That's a good question, but it seems to me that 'experts' as well as 'beginners' are monomaniacal about chasing every little persnickety climate change rabbit down its hole while at the same time ignoring the plague of over-consuming human rabbits that are causing mass extinctions, landscape degradation, resource depletion etc..  

This isn't to say that climate change isn't a big, bad problem and that more needs to be done; rather that it's a mistake to fixate on climate change without looking at the root cause of the problem -  which is too many people consuming too much stuff.

As if monomania about one symptom of the problem wasn't bad enough, everyone is monomaniacal about arguing over market mechanisms that won't fix the underlying cause of climate change - the government's of the world have already demonstrated that market instruments don't work in this case and nor can they - because to do so reduce economic growth and the economists won't countenance that.  The horrible truth though is that it's not possible to breed evermore ravenous rabbits in one cage and not have them either eat or pollute themselves to death.  It goes without saying that direct action, i.e. giving more money to business to breed yet more rabbits, won't work either.

But don't take my word for it, try Googling Professor Kevin Anderson/climate change for some scary scientific insights into how hopelessly optimistic  the economists (who I note are not necessarily scientists/ecologists) are being about the chances that their market instruments will work - which based on the science and progress to date appears to be zero. 

We need to accept it, market mechanisms have and will fail to prevent anthropogenic climate change and so there is no choice but to either endure/adapt to climate change (probably not an option for billions of people), or try a new approach to problem solving.   

I rather like the idea of radically transforming our pro-growther civilization into something far less malignant by imposing a period of de-growth followed by a steady state economic system.  However, there are also other options to think about like implementing new low/zero emission regulations and rationing the use of fossil fuels. 




  


At the start of the war the Japanese opened hostilities with a cowardly surprise attack.

During the war the Japanese soldiers cowardly murdered civilians and prisoners with great gusto.

In the closing stages of the war the Japanese leadership cowardly refused to lose face and surrender when it was clear that they had lost the war thus lengthening the horrific conflict.

Overall, I would say that cowardice and not bravery characterized the activities of the Japanese military during WWII irrespective of the deeds of individual soldiers.

It looks like Tony Abbott has been caught out, once again, speaking conveniently rather than truthfully.  

Where is the change of heart Ravensclaw?  I think you'll find that the Japanese don't tend to acknowledge their war crimes.  

It's hard to move on and become best mates when one side doesn't have the courage to take responsibility and own up to their actions - especially when they have behaved as revoltingly as the Japanese did in WWII.

It's true that democide (death by government) was the leading cause of non-natural death last century and that we should all be aware, upset by, and critical of any government that murders civilians.

What Stephen has said is not in any way inconsistent with that sentiment Michael.  What would be inconsistent with that sentiment would be lauding the bravery of particular Japanese soldiers without also describing the atrocities that their countrymen so cruelly perpetrated on civilians and prisoners at the same time - as Tony Abbott so recently did.

Stephen is perfectly justified in being upset with Tony Abbott for his omission and I reckon most Australians would agree. 

 

 

Agreed.  Neoliberalism is awful, but the big problem the Libs/Labs have is that they both represent an outmoded ideology and way of life.

The good news is that people have already started to wake up to this and that both parties will continue to lose traction as our social/economic/environmental situation steadily worsens and people look for alternatives.  The bad news is that things will probably have to get a whole lot worse before they get better.I agree that climate change is a big problem and we should be doing more about it, but what about the rest of our ecological issues?

Taxing carbon pollution or having an ETS doesn't go anywhere near far enough towards addressing the rampant overconsumption/overexploitation of resources and ecosystems and overpopulation that are the root causes of all of our ecological problems.  It won't matter if we swap a chunk of our energy production over to renewables if we don't do something about the real source of the problems.  Otherwise, we will will burn out anyway from climate change, mass extinctions, resource depletion, pollution, landscape degradation, etc..

The focus on using pro-growther economic parlor tricks to address climate change (which are doomed to fail) is crowding out a far more significant debate that we should be having about transforming our entire political/economic system from one based on perpetual growth to one based on the equitable, ethical, and permanently sustainable usage of resources and the planet that we all live on.
  
It's so frustrating that everyone is still flogging the dead cap and trade horse while global emissions continue to rise.
   
The time has come to stop believing in economic fairy tales that we can continue to grow economically in perpetuity
and not eat or pollute ourselves to death.

We need to wake up and address the root causes of the problems by instituting a period of economic de-growth followed by a steady state economic system.  Otherwise we will continue to boom and then inevitably bust.
You know, it's possible to agree with the scientists (whose knowledge is extremely reliable) that anthropogenic climate change is a major issue and that we need to act to prevent it AND disagree with the economists (whose knowledge is no more reliable than that of witch doctors or astrologers) about the proposed solution.

Cap and trade or a carbon tax won't prevent anthropogenic climate change, so keep the laws or dump them, I don't really care because either way they will make little to no difference. 
Hell, put a paper bag over your head if it makes you feel better.

It won't change the fact that the only way to address the problem is to take action on its root cause - which is too many people consuming too much stuff.  

Overconsumption and overpopulation are the key drivers for harmful pollution, mass extinctions, resource depletion, landscape degradation, buggering up the nitrogen cycle, acidifying the oceans etc., etc., etc.. We all understand that its necessary to treat diseases to get rid of the unpleasant symptoms of same, but our witchdoctors are fixated on treating the symptoms.

Furthermore, there is no political/economic will get the settings of a carbon tax or cap-and-trade system right.  Neither system will ever be implemented in a manner that would actually accomplish the policy outcomes that are their purpose because that would impact on economic growth (i.e. the expansion of human activity and the necessary consequences of same). The witchdoctors would rather die, and kill us all in the process, rather than give up on their god money.

The only way to avoid a collapse is to implement a period of economic de-growth and follow this up by introducing a steady state economic system, but the current suite of policy instruments don't do this and nor do the current crop of politicians/economists (who I note are not necessarily scientists or even rational people) want them to. 

The economists believe their free market system is the best and only way to solve everything, but it's just a smokescreen for inaction and we can do better. 

We cannot have our cake and eat it too, so stop believing the witchdoctors and start thinking for yourself.

Humans cannot always adapt or innovate their way out of whatever is thrown at them; as demonstrated by failed civilizations.

Just think about it or a second - it's hard to adapt to say, falling off a cliff, by growing wings or inventing and constructing a parachute when you're already on the way down.

We aren't super heroes who can grow wings, gills, scales, sweat glands, or invent and build technological equivalents under all circumstances/timeframes. 

Adaptation and innovation take time, but time is in short supply.  

Nevertheless, humans are adaptable and we can and will adapt to meet this crisis (or fail and die off in large numbers), but I don't think we will adapt in the way you can imagine. 

Instead, we will modify our economic/political systems to better suit our changing environment and our needs. 

One adaptive approach, for example, would be to develop/introduce a system of economic de-growth and follow this up by developing/introducing a steady state economic system.  

It's now clear that maintaining the status quo will almost certainly result in most everyone dying prematurely from one or more human caused ecological catastrophes in the not so distant future, so I think you're on a hiding to nothing if you want to maintain the existing system which is doomed to boom and then bust.  

Good luck trying to stop change from happening though, but I wouldn't want to bet that your kind will succeed.  Nor would I want to be a reactionary like you if adaptation is hindered until it's too late.The article makes the point that most/all of the current raft of 'solutions' to climate change don't really represent a solution at all, so I think your being a bit hard on the Greens for opposing a non-solution. 

Come to think of it, when Labor or the Liebrals decide to implement a non-solution as their response to climate change it seems important for someone to hold out for something that might actually have a hope in hell of working. 

It's important for someone to scream out that the emperor has no clothes. Especially when there isn't a government or nation in the whole world which has the necessary political/economic will to undertake anything but the most trifling efforts to prevent anthropogenic climate change when it's clear that far more drastic and urgent action is required.

Labor didn't really fail because of the Greens, but because they lack the will to go far enough.  This comes as no big surprise because Labor and the Liebrals' lack of meaningful action on climate change is characteristic of a far larger failure of the global economic/political system.

This is why many people argue that global civilization needs more than a non-solution ETS and instead needs some kind of drastic and urgent transformation into some kind of steady state system or we will all continue to boom, then inevitably bust.Well, hopefully the PUP will go down the dd route and it's probably in their interests to do so - I heard, for example, that minor parties attract more votes under those kind of circumstances.  

Also, Clive's recent announcements re climate change policy might sway centre leaning Liberals to his cause - and let's not forget that the Libs are also very unpopular, so that might help draw swinging voters and centre Libs towards the PUP too.  

As an added bonus, a dd would also provide Clive with an opportunity to burn his frenemies in the Liberal party.

I guess there is a risk that some members of the PUP team would lose their seats in a dd, but this risk is offset by the chance of winning more/different seats.  Clive's also rich and well connected, so I'm sure he can provide his people with 'opportunities' in the event that the worst happens for particular individuals. 

So overall a dd mightn't just be a blessing for the country by making our politicians to spell out their true intentions and all that, but it would probably be a clever play for PUP too.
     
Anyway, I guess we'll all see what the PUP is made of soon enough.  They will either angle for a dd that would be in their own interests and the interests of the country, or will they maintain the status quo, which works in favour of the Liebrals, and risk political annihilation along with them at the next regular election. 
Well, I'm not convinced that the PUP isn't in a position to force a DD or is unlikely if they did.

I thought that the constitutional crisis of 1975 demonstrated that the PM doesn't actually need to call a DD - the GG can do so of his own volition provided he/she is satisfied that the necessary trigger event (which is basically the same bit of legislation being blocked by Senate twice) exists.  

So, I wouldn't bet that the GG wouldn't end up calling a DD, with or without the nod from the PM, if the PUP uses its balance of power in the Senate after 1 July to repeatedly reject some or even ALL new legislation.Okay, so it seems like it's technically possible for the GG to bring on a DD without the approval of the PM, but that this would be extraordinary, controversial, and perhaps involve some clever skullduggery.

According to Wikipedia:

"Though the Constitution refers to the Governor-General doing certain things, it had until the 1975 Australian constitutional crisis been believed that convention required the Governor-General to act only on the advice of the Prime Minister. However, as the 1975 constitutional crisis demonstrated, the Governor-General is not compelled to follow the Prime Minister's advice. In these cases, he or she must be personally satisfied that the conditions specified in the Constitution apply, and is entitled to seek additional information or advice before coming to a decision."

Now given that the above is sourced from Wikipedia, which may or may not be reliable, and given that I'm not qualified to say one way or another, I think this is as far as I can take it and will happily defer to the experts. 

My sister-in-law knows some Egyptian immigrants.  She tells me that they complain about how Egypt once had a middle class like Australia and how stupid Australians are for allowing the middle class to be destroyed here like it has been in Egypt.It's not the Greens who lack consistency in their approach, or who are having a crisis of credibility.

For weeks now the Lieberals have been playing down the impact of this new tax on motorists saying it will only cost most families 40 cents a week or whatever.

The Liberals and their supporters cannot have it both ways; charging families a 40 cent fuel tax per week is either a modest impost, in which case it's unlikely to represent a sufficient incentive to make most people decide to drive less, thus burning less fuel and causing less pollution. Or, as you appear to be claiming here, the fuel tax actually represents a significant cost on families - because an insignificant cost wouldn't influence anyone's decisions now would it.

So which is it?  Is the new fuel tax really a significant new tax to protect the environment, or are the Libs just sticking their hands into everyone's pockets for some other reason?

As an aside, you are also plain wrong that being concerned about the environment is somehow incompatible with being concerned about social issues.Matthewson has got it wrong.  Milne didn't reject the fuel excise just because it would affect those without access to public transport or because more roads would cause more congestion.

Instead, the Greens rejected the fuel excise because the money it would raise was earmarked for expenditure on roads exclusively.

It's disingenuous and dissembling of Matthewson to suggest otherwise, but what else would one expect from a Howard era media advisor?  

We all know that spending money on roads is not the same thing as spending money on public transport.  And we all know that public transport is the most efficient and least polluting form of transportation.  It's therefore perfectly appropriate to reject this latest Lieberal tax. 

Once again, Milne and the Greens deserve congratulations for standing up for ordinary people and the environment.I won't argue that we shouldn't build and maintain highways and roads where necessary - and most of us already pay taxes for just this kind of purpose via existing taxes.  

But let's not kid ourselves that man made climate change is a town vs. country issue; or that spending additional money on public transport isn't a good idea just because public transport is better suited to urban rather than rural areas due to differences in concentrations of people.Yes the Lieberals lie all the time, but it's not just because they lie all the time that they're being opposed.

Have you ever wondered why the Liberals need to lie so frequently about their policies?  I'll give you a clue - it has something to do with the fact that their policies are not in most peoples interests.  This is also why so many people hate the Liberals and why they their policies are being opposed.Sorry maus, but you seem to have your wires crossed.  If NATO stays out of it that won't make them irrelevant.  

Fighting the Russians on the other hand most definitely will make NATO irrelevant.

There won't be much need for NATO after a conflict between NATO and the Russians escalates, as it surely must if such a conflict happens, into a nuclear war that burns up Russia, Germany, the USA and so on and so forth.Alpo, I'm just a simple fourth generation trade unionist and former Labor supporter who gave up on them after enduring thirty years or so of their neoliberalism/betrayal, so forgive me if I'm having a hard time seeing the change in Labor that seems so obvious to you.

Maybe it would help if you could point out exactly what has given you the impression that the ALP has changed their position on neoliberalism?  Just what are the changes that Labor is proposing to make to the economy that will take us all in a new post neoliberal direction?   
 
Maybe you could also explain to me why Labor's faith in endless economic growth in a finite world doesn't demonstrate that they are outmoded and need replacing anyway.Well Rabbithole, I think we will have to agree to disagree that there's nothing inherently wrong with capitalism, because I cannot see it as anything but a particularly repellent characteristic of our doomed industrial/technological civilization.   

Actually, I'm kind of bewildered that you seem concerned about the subversion/repression of democracy by particular capitalist gangs/elements, but not about the overarching role that capitalism more generally plays in same.

Anti-democratic policies are hallmarks of capitalism, especially the extremist neoliberal capitalism that is promoted and supported by both parties.  Take, for example, the removal of various laws and trade protections, the drive for small government, the suppression of unions, WTO agreements dictating what nations can and cannot do about issues like environmental protection, food safety, trading with human rights abusers, IP, and so on and so forth.  All of these undemocratic things, and more, are 'justified' by appeals to key features of capitalism such as efficiency, profits and competition.  

It also seems to me that nobody born into capitalism is given much choice about whether they want to participate in the system or not; there's no 'opt-out clause' for conscientious objectors/refuseniks.  Nobody gets offered free access to the means of production (such as arable land) to eke out a subsistence lifestyle for themselves and their family if they don't want to participate - or if they do please tell me how.  Instead, private ownership of the means of production (and state ownership of whatever isn't) means that everyone is basically born with a debt to civilization that they can never repay.  Nobody gets to vote on this and this seems very undemocratic to me. 

You seem to be hoping that if only people with good hearts can get more say in things that the juggernaut can somehow be rendered harmless, or maybe mostly harmless.  If yes, I can sympathize.  I once held similar views, but I now consider that position wrongheaded. 

Nowadays I just don't see how the capitalist industrial/technological system can do anything other than frack everything up if left to run on.  The system requires, among other things, ready access to enormous and ever increasing volumes of resources/materials, energy, and cheap labour - changing who's in charge won't alter the need for these requirements so the damage done sourcing them will continue.  

The system requires both good and bad people to make bad decisions.  So how can we hope to achieve good outcomes without changing the system rather than just the decision makers?   

Unless the system is radically transformed so that, among other things, people are freed to behave according to their own conscience (a situation that is incompatible with capitalism) then the whole shebang is going to end in tears.    
You are probably right Mr middle-of-the-road; whoever goes first could very well be martyred and there are limits to what an individual can achieve, but I hope they do it anyway and I hope the sacrifice would be worth it.

Historically, Jesus tried to change the world and look what they did to him - despite his fairly limited impact at the time.  But the accomplishments of the widespread movement that took up his ideas after his death, well that's another story. 

The JSF must've improved out of sight (one wonders how?) since: "WA Liberal backbencher Dennis Jensen said he had spoken to a third party with knowledge of the final classified test results who had claimed the JSF had been clubbed like baby seals by the simulated Sukhois."

The JSF is a dud - the rationale for purchasing these shxxtbirds is to suck up to the USA and the faulty reasoning that the phenomenally expensive project has become to big to fail. 

Even the Libs themselves know it.If the boot fits. . ."If the government wants to win back voters' trust . . .  our leaders might want to revisit those old, worn textbooks from their student days."

Before they go back to their textbooks, I reckon the Libs would benefit from being sent for re-education/de-programming to purge them of their myopic, selfish and greedy ideas - a sort of morality boot-camp.
There are plenty of Australians who are racist that will love Palmer's comments, so I don't think he will be sidelined because of these comments.  Also, as noted above, there are plenty of legitimate issues with China that our government should be doing more about.

I don't know what kind of people you know, but the Australians I know aren't keen to ignore brutality on their way to collect their pay.

Besides, putting the gaff about China to one side, Palmer actually acquitted himself as a person who is sensitive to the needs of Australians which is in stark contrast to Truss who had to defend the indefensible.Palmer's comments about China have done nothing to shift the pendulum in favour of the budget.

People are smart enough to realize that the two issues are unrelated other than the fact that they involve some of the same actors.Greig, supplying the world with electricity won't do anyone any good if it also means cranking up  planet's thermostat by 4 degrees.Yippee!

And here I was thinking that all I had to look forward to after enduring 40 odd years of neoliberalism was a career as either a garbage recycler, street vendor, organ grinder, prostitute, or criminal.

You have opened my eyes!  


Leisure class?   I'm afraid you are confused Zulu.  

I referred to occupations that jot descriptions of the lumpenproletariat (hardly a leisure class) and the informal economy which thanks to the policies of our current government, as well as our other governments of the past 40 odd years, are no doubt growing faster than the aged care sector.

It's a once in a lifetime opportunity Zulu!

So come down off your high horse and join me and millions of others in the race to the bottom.GRF

The drive for population growth is part of the broader push for endless economic growth.  Sure, particular individuals have children for all sorts of reasons, but this doesn't preclude governments from pushing for population growth for economic reasons also.

I've heard, for example, politicians here in Australia lobbying for a higher population to create a 'big Australia' even though our current population, consuming and polluting the way it does, is already unsustainable.  The rationale for the policy being basically that our Ponzi scheme economy will slow down or maybe fall over unless an ever increasing number of fresh patsies are continuously added to the bottom tier of the pyramid.

The 'big Australia' idea also ignores another key aspect of the problem - it's not just increasing population that matters, but also per-capita rates of consumption.  The average person in a rich country is far more likely to consume and pollute more than a person in a poor country, which makes the 'Big Australia' idea even less attractive if you are concerned about landscape degradation, pollution, resource depletion etc..  

You are right though that not everyone cares about the risks and consequences that overpopulation and endless economic growth represent - as demonstrated by the stupid 'big Australia' concept that keeps on popping up.I'm not convinced that there should be more lobbying based on the return that it provides on investment - instead, I reckon our politicians are merely content selling out for peanuts.

It also seems to me that neoliberals are more than happy to enact all sorts of regulations and binding agreements, just so long as they serve the interests of the few at the expense of the many and entrench vested interests.It seems to me that these banking fears are just another symptom of how our economy has been basically hollowed out until all that's left is a fragile shell.  The risk now is that 40 odd years of neoliberalism will come home to roost and crush us.

I know this article is about banking/financial risks, but it seems to me that the slavish pursuit of profits has created other big risks as well.

For example, just recently I heard that we have a month or so worth of fuel to keep things ticking over, that we have become a big fuel importer, and that our refining capability has been eroded away so that a hiccup in supply caused by say a war, terrorist activity (or maybe even a lack of funds due to a financial crisis?), means that our society could survive a mere few weeks before collapsing.  

I reckon this type of risk is among the un-factored costs of globalization - everything has become linked into a far larger whole so it can all be brought down by a single event, or chain of events, that are so far removed from us that we have little or no power to influence or control them.

Public assets have been privatized, government liabilities and public debt is enormous, manufacturing has shrunk, regulations to protect us from the worst of the pirates have been removed and other regulations and agreements to help the pirates have been imposed with little or no consultation with the electorate, the environment is cactus, the haves have more whereas the have nots have less, and so on.  

In the face of this, the public sector, which represents one of best protections against the worst in people, is under constant attack and is suffering from continuous cuts. 

All most of us do is sit and take it. 

In the mean time, the government, as well as the faceless men and corporations behind them, seem to fear that people will become unsettled because things are bad and may get worse, so they are ramping spy and secret police powers.

What comes next in the face of the next inevitable crisis caused by rampant selfishness and greed?  

How will the government respond I wonder?
    
My guess is that they will not just socialize the losses, that mightn't go far enough, not when there are profits to consider.  So they might also arrange a big fire sale to let their mates snap up whatever is left of this country at bargain rates.

And why not?  It's not as if they don't have the power to suppress anyone who may disagree and god-money must be worshipped.Call me old fashioned, but unlike anarchists, and pseudo anarchists of the neoliberal/free market persuasion, I accept that whenever people get together in groups they quite naturally create rules to ensure mutual wellbeing and to protect the commons.

Most of us would rather have more laws than just the law of the jungle otherwise that's how we would all be living - which makes me think that your apparent hatred of government and laws puts you in a fringe minority.

Neoliberalism has failed socially, environmentally, and economically, and that makes it a very poor framework to be a slave to.  You can deny it all you like, but that market-god has failed to self regulate and the bad outcomes are heaping up. 

It's now clear that a lack of sound regulations generates poor outcomes for the majority (although it may work very well for a time for a small minority of pirates) and thus the need for better regulations and their inevitable implementation.  

Time to accept some changes are needed, they're inevitable anyway.I saw a Greens candidate in the USA on the tele the other night who said something pithy along the lines of: "when you are forced to choose between the lesser of two evils you end up getting the evil of two lessers".

Sounds about right to me.

Voting for the Greens, or another party, or an independent, is probably the best way to break the current political oligopoly in Australia.  Better results should follow the introduction of new ideas and debate over same.Daz

The two major parties will never create an ETS that actually works.

They will never set a meaningful cap on emissions - a proper cap might hurt economic growth/profits/business.  Nor will they ever properly police emissions under the cap - proper metering, measuring, and enforcement might hurt economic growth/profits/business.

Then of course there are offsets and offshoring, which essentially permit business to sidestep the cap and keep on emitting.

The surest way to reduce emissions is to pass regulations that limit and/or ban them, but this won't happen in a meaningful way either because it might hurt economic growth/profits/business.  

Thus we find that preventing AGW requires transforming our economic system far more radically than the mere imposition of an ETS or regulations.

At the risk of stating the obvious, our capitalist industrial/technological system is destroying nature/the environment with its requirement for endless growth, we need nature/the environment to survive, so we need to either replace the system with something better adapted to the reality of our situation or we will inevitably consume and/or pollute ourselves to death.Hi Stalga

A meaningful levy at the point of extraction sounds like a fine idea in theory; however, do you believe such a levy would ever get implemented given the nature of the current economic/political system and its requirement for endless growth?

To be honest, and given progress to date preventing AGW, I think this seems pretty unlikely.

We cannot even agree to implement an extremely modest scheme here in Australia, and even in places where they have agreed to implement an ETS, the settings are chosen with more of a view towards enabling further economic growth (despite the fact that current economic activity is unsustainable) than towards reducing emissions to a level where AGW would be prevented.

I guess I'm not seeing why an extraction levy wouldn't suffer from the same systemic constraints as the other policy solutions on offer, so I still think we need to transform the system much more broadly to get rid of those constraints if we are to prevent AGW and solve all the other grave environmental problems we are facing.  

I reckon we need to transform the whole she-bang into something very new - maybe a steady state system?  Otherwise I think we are headed for big trouble.
The neoliberal free market ideology of the last 40 odd years has failed socially, economically, and environmentally.  

I find it baffling that anyone still  believes that an ETS will prevent AGW on the back of this failure.

An ETS is just a policy smokescreen for doing nothing. 

Regulations that set radically reduced greenhouse gas emission levels for say transport, industrial processes etc. are probably the best bet for delivering deep cuts instead of a fluffy market based approach, or this latest stupid plan of giving tax payer money to the Libs' mates in big business.

I feel sorry for the people who are being killed and repressed by terrorists and violent organisations wherever this may be happening.

I also feel sorry for absolutely everyone on Earth, including all of us Australians, who may happen to be alive when AGW goes nuts.

As serious as the terrorist threat may be I think it's hard to argue that AGW isn't far more serious.

It seems to me that the IS terrorists can only kill, brutalize, torture and repress a given number of people whereas AGW has the potential to kill us all.

So why all the attention from the government on IS and not on AGW?  

One soldier in Canada gets killed, and yes it's a tragedy as death always is.  So why aren't the Libs similarly worried about progress towards a tragic AGW caused holocaust?

Do the Libs know something that the scientific community doesn't?  Do they have some facts at their disposal that can be used to dismiss concerns over AGW?  If yes, why don't they share them so everyone else can sleep easy?  If no, why have they decided to tear down institutions and policies as well as funding for agencies that can help prevent AGW?  

Why also have they come out so strongly in favour of big fossil fuel companies and interests at the expense, say, of the ANU's decision to divest itself of fossil fuel investments?  
 
If they know something about why everyone shouldn't be worried about AGW surely they have a duty to share it so the experts can scrutinize it and we can all put our minds at peace. 

If not, then the Libs should take a cold, hard look at what they are doing about AGW before trying to stress everyone too much more over IS, or boat people, or whatever.  Because I think most of us are pretty aware of what is more terrifying.



Albo

Fine, like Smith above you, and the Libs and the climate deniers, you don't seem to believe that AGW is an issue that we need to worry about.

The trouble is that the scientists and others who don't agree with you are awfully convincing and actually have data, skills and expertise to back up their conclusions.

So, if have any of the above feel free to share them in the interests of full disclosure.

Because otherwise I'm going to believe them over you.

I'm afraid you cannot settle the AGW issue and give everyone peace of mind with a cheery bon mot, so please feel free to back up your gallows humour with some substance.  
SVJ

Well at least you would stop consuming, but more seriously, aren't the Libs aren't capable of multitasking?

Can't the Libs both care and do something about IS and AGW?

If not why not?

The issue certainly deserves the effort, because make no mistake, AGW will result in a holocaust if left to run it's course.  Don't take my word for it though, do your own research.   

Sure, people can adapt to changing circumstances with time, the right kind of resources, and evolution on their side; however, the more severe range of AGW scenarios (which it looks like we are headed for) are expected to be outside the range of what we can adapt to and we probably won't have the time to evolve either.

Doesn't that warrant action to prevent AGW now?

Not that long ago I was hearing from government funded organization (it was axed after the election) that this was the critical decade for action - can you please tell me what has changed?

Clearly prevention isn't sexy, but neither is dying of thirst or heatstroke or starvation or whatever.

I just want to sleep easy knowing that everyone's kids and grandkids have a chance of a future, so as with the others who have posted here, if you have reliable evidence to substantiate your apparent disregard for AGW please feel free to pass it on.So you don't believe AGW is a problem, well I'm glad you've found a way put your mind at peace; however, I'm not satisfied or convinced that you're right because your views don't accord with the theories of large numbers of experts and their evidence.

So where to?  

Well, I'm a big believer in working things through to get as close as possible to the truth and to get the best possible outcome.  So if there is nothing to worry about when it comes to AGW, and based on the Libs recent actions they don't seem to think there is, why don't the Libs make their case in public?  

If there is nothing to fear from AGW, what is it that makes the Libs afraid to say so?  

I mean surely having one less thing to fear would be good news wouldn't it?  And wouldn't it be nice to hear some good news for a change?   I know I'd be happier with less to worry about and I'm sure that plenty of other people would be too.

So let's hear the case against AGW from the Libs themselves.AE

Speaking from a practical policy perspective, it seems to me that the trick isn't trying to settle the AGW science to an absolute certainty, which given your educational claims you would understand to be broadly accepted in the sciences as being basically impossible anyway, but is instead judging when there's enough reliable data to form conclusions and make decisions.

The majority of global scientific and policy experts agree that there's already sufficient scientific data to take AGW seriously and that we should act to prevent it.

If the Libs and climate change deniers are holding back reliable data that says otherwise let them bring it to the table for analysis by the global community of experts - I'm sure, that like me, they will be relieved to learn that there's nothing to worry about. 

So good on you AE for learning how to think about things and question them.  The next trick is learning how to take that data, form reliable conclusions, and act on them accordingly.The neoliberal free market brand of pseudo anarchism has failed - it's time to move on.The markets failed to self regulate, leading to the GFC.

The markets have failed, and based on progress to date, will continue to fail to take decisive action to prevent AGW, mass extinctions, etc..  This will in all likelihood lead to absolute disaster.

The removal of some laws, and the imposition of others, in the name of neoliberalism have created a less equal and more immobile, society. 

Trickle down economics have failed.  Neoliberalism has allowed the rich to get richer at the expense of workers and the middle class being able to do the same. 

Neoliberalism has, predictably, failed for much the same reason as why anarchism is broadly seen to be a form of political insanity -  the removal of laws and regulations allows the powerful to ruthlessly, selfishly, and greedily exploit and oppress the weak and degrade the commons like piratical savages.
 
It's also futile arguing that people don't need laws to govern them.  Whenever people gather together in groups they naturally and spontaneously establish rules to promote and encourage group cohesion and wellbeing.  The removal of same accomplishes the opposite thus creating the need for new rules and their inevitable implementation.

It's also a mistake to attribute/conflate people's wellbeing with neoliberalism - this fails to take account of technological advances, education, healthcare, the benefits of government and regulations (despite the best efforts of neoliberals to destroy or degrade same) etc..  

The neoliberal experiment has, predictably, failed and it's time for something new.

Move on.Predictable and pathetic. 

The Libs are deeply unpopular, but rather than address the root causes of their unpopularity they say stupid things to provoke tangential and comfortable 'left' vs. 'right' debates.

Once again, the Libs have demonstrated that they are only really happy splashing about in the heated waters of the kiddie pool - they just don't have the skill or stamina for deeper water.I reckon the Libs recent language choices (shirtfront, girlie-man) says as much about the low esteem in which they hold the Australian public as it says about them.

Just about everything politicians say or do is carefully crafted for maximum effect, so what might the Libs be trying to accomplish with their recent utterances?

Well, the Libs are down in the polls and are struggling to sell their budget/policies, so they are going to carefully pick language that they believe will make themselves and their nasty plans more attractive and/or cloud the issues.  

Which, given their recent choices of words, means that the Libs must believe that a significant proportion of the public has violent and sexist sympathies/tendencies and/or that playing to these sympathies/tendencies will provoke 'leftists' into a confrontation that will provide a convenient smokescreen for their deeply unpopular ideas and efforts. 

So much for the 'light on the hill', but then I guess desperate times call for desperate measures.  And boy oh boy, aren't the Libs ever so desperate.Actually, I was thinking of when Tony Abbott quoted those words in a recent speech to the UN. 

Moving on though, face it, the Libs aren't real statesmen - as demonstrated by their moronic shirtfront and girlie-man comments.  

Australians deserve good leaders, not taunting and out-moded bullies.Well, I think that Jesus existed along with many other historical prophetic figures.

I think the fact that there is minimal historical evidence (just a couple of contemporary historical references by Tacitus and Josephus) other than the accounts in the Bible and in Biblical Apocrypha etc. is perfectly consistent with the historical story of Jesus and Christianity instead of representing evidence that he didn't exist.

Jesus' widespread fame only really grew, alongside the movement that he inspired, after his death.  So the lack of contemporary historical information other than that provided by his followers isn't all that surprising - it would perhaps be more surprising if there was tons of information.

The fact that Jesus was put to death is also telling - I'm not sure that this was quite what either he or his followers really expected would happen.  Instead, I think they were hoping to inspire an 'insurrection' of sorts that would result in some kind of new 'Kingdom of God' here on Earth in the not so distant future.  

If the story was purely fictional I think his followers would probably have come up with a plot that didn't require all sorts of fancy theological footwork to explain Jesus' rather gruesome death and the failure of his movement to bring about major changes, in a temporal as well as a spiritual sense, during their lifetimes. 

I remember hearing it said that Jesus put his shoulder to the wheel of history, but rather than move it forward the wheel rolled back over him, crushed him, and carried his mangled corpse down through the ages - this struck me as being a very believable interpretation of events given my (admittedly limited) understanding of Jesus, his mission, and human nature.Canberra isn't sealed off completely, it has plenty of inputs and outputs.

All sorts of distasteful waste from the rest of the nation gets periodically deposited in 'the Can' and plenty leaks out too.

Maintaining the place is not without benefits though; including being able to blame, rightly or wrongly, all sorts of unpleasant emanations on just one of the nation's orifices.

More seriously though, this is one of those rare occasions that I'm going to side with the free market, as should all of the 'good capitalists' (of which I'm not) out there.

It seems to me that it's only right that if we are to be forced to endure the worst of neoliberalism that we might as well pragmatically accept some of the meager benefits it may offer - at least until we implement something better.

So I'm going to agree with the other posters here who say that the ANU should be able to do what it likes with its own investments.  

If for no other reason than it gratifies me to see vested interests who usually enjoy numerous unfair advantages and who undertake activities that are deleterious to our collective chances of preventing AGW squirm as the hook turns a tiny bit.  
This brings to mind a vague recollection I have of a recent study that that looked at parental (or maybe just the fathers'?) income as a indicator for the likely earnings of their kids (or maybe just their sons'?) across a bunch of first world countries.

The rationale for the study being that measuring differences in income across generations within families would provide an indicator of social mobility in different countries.

I think the study found that the USA was the least mobile of all of the countries studied - which is ironic considering that they are also the ones who probably have the most entrenched national myth that hard graft will get you to the top.

Australia, the UK, and maybe Canada were about in the middle.

And one of those enlightened European countries (maybe Finland?) was at the top.

Now, considering that the deeds of our current crop of extremist capitalist politicians are informed by the political/economic ideas/theories of likeminded nutcases in the USA, I think its pretty clear what our kids can expect to get by way of hard graft if our politicians continue to get their way.

Looking at the USA as the template for what our politicians seem to be trying to accomplish here I reckon we are headed for far fewer people who are reasonably off, vast numbers of working poor/underemployed/unemployed, and a few super rich people who inherit their wealth and pass it on, with not much chance of anyone breaking free of their class to upset the applecart. 

This sounds like a recipe for widespread misery and social unrest to me, so I guess I fall into the 'tough crowd' category when it comes to selling me this as something to aspire to.Maybe you're right, I don't really know, it just sank in somewhere in passing.

Perhaps I got the idea after reading a recent article by Andrew Leigh, Shadow Assistant Treasurer and Member for Fraser, in an article titled "Why even conservatives should care about inequality" posted here on the Drum on 2 Oct 2014 .  

In his article Mr Leigh wrote:

"As we have estimated mobility measures for many different nations, a pattern has emerged that contradicts some of the old nostrums about mobility. It turns out that the United States - the nation with a strong Horatio Alger sense that anyone can make it - is not only very unequal, it is also very immobile. By contrast, the more egalitarian nations of Scandinavia are also more mobile. Countries like Australia, Canada and the United Kingdom are in between."

This seems like a similar enough kind of sentiment to parts of what I wrote, so I think I probably absorbed something from there, but then I also seem to recall hearing something along the same lines on my car radio, so maybe I have gotten my wires crossed somewhere else.  

Anyway, I think I'm still kind of in the right ball park even if I'm not exactly spot on. 
Education both is and always has been a fundamentally political activity. 

I reckon the issue at hand is whether our schools exist merely to perpetuate the class system (which would still be a political activity) by restricting them to teaching educational basics and behavioral modification/training that's deemed useful for perpetuating the status quo; or whether our schools also have a role in providing kids with the mental framework about the bigger picture upon which they will be able to build the knowledge and skills that they will need to reshape our world for the better. 

This makes me wonder if Chris' objection to "cross curriculum priorities" with a focus on sustainability etc. are based on fears that children might just learn more about the world than the expectations that the 'powers that be' want to impose on people with their station in life?    
 
I'm sure the IPA would love it if the kiddies were sent to 'class' and 'class' alone; I mean it's not as if our children need to learn anything that might help them challenge the broken and doomed status quo now is there?


Right thinker

I reckon the elevation and focus on 'left brain' type of thinking and behaviour (not just in our schools but also in our culture more generally) at the expense of more 'right brain' types of same, is having grave consequences. 

There is a reason why evolution has provided us with both - they both help us to adapt and survive.  It's simply a mistake to elevate/celebrate one and not the other as we are doing.

The 'left brain' dominated status quo has had a fair run, it has cocked things up, and looks almost certain to cock things up completely barring some kind of miracle.    

So difficult to quantify or not, I reckon it's time we added some more 'right brain' balance to the mix to improve the way we make decisions and behave.  

On a positive note, it's fortunate that we do actually have it in us. 

"How's about thinking with as much grey matter as possible regardless of the side of the cranium it inhabits!!" 

Couldn't agree more.  I don't think anyone said otherwise.

I don't think 'right brain' intuition is limited to applications in the arts though.  Instead, I think it might be undervalued in other more mundane and pragmatic human activities. 

This isn't to say that rationalism, or empiricism, or whatever is without merit and that these things shouldn't be taught (as if they didn't exist 'naturally' anyway), rather that as a culture (and maybe even as a species more generally) we have given privileged status to 'logical' thinking at the expense of more 'intuitive' thinking.  

This doesn't come without risk.

By way of example, an experiment has been undertaken wherein a cohort of healthy rats and a cohort of humans (who have had brain surgery for whatever reason that has severed the two hemispheres of their brains) take part in a 'game' wherein they are shown a random sequence of red and green lights, but a sequence that is weighted to randomly show red lights 75% of the time, but is otherwise pattern-less.  The aim of the game is to make correct red vs. green guesses.   

After a time the rats work out that there are more red lights than green lights and always pick red.  This is an 'intuitive' approach that should result in correct guesses 75% of the time.

Humans don't do this.  Instead, we generally adopt a more 'logical' approach and try to match our guesses in proportion to the ratio of red vs. green lights.  This is an approach that holds the promise of getting things right 100% of the time, but because the sequence is random we end up making fewer correct guesses - about 60% correct.

Thus we find that it's human nature to use a 'logical' approach to try to improve our results, but in uncertain or random situations this can lead to worse results than a rat's 'intuition' would.

What makes the experiment really interesting though is that when humans with split brain injury use just their left eye and just their left hand to indicate their guess (which coupled with their surgery forces them to use their right brain alone) then they will always use an 'intuitive' approach and get better results.  When the experimenters ask them to swap to their right eye/hand the participants use their 'left brain', adopt a 'logical' approach, and then get worse results.

Now, I reckon the different right vs. left thinking styles have implications for how we make other more important decisions.  Like say whether we should try to make a 'logical' guess about a safe level for burning fossil fuels, or whether we should instead 'intuitively' phase them out as rapidly as we can."It could well be managers were hiring more managers to do the dirty work."

Or maybe it's got something to do with outsourcing the work of the Commonwealth public service to the private sector.

Public service departments budget for their money under two streams; one stream for the running costs of the department (staff, building costs etc.), the second stream is for implementing projects/doing the government's will.  I think these are called departmental and administered funds.  

Now, I think the pattern has been that departments have been forced, through efficiency cuts, to cut employment under the first stream, so what they have been doing is hiring contractors and consultants under the second stream.  In other words, they have been forced to game the system a bit to make sure they have enough bodies to get the job done.

One of the issues with this approach is that it's more expensive - not only does the public service need to hire private sector workers to get the job done, but it also needs to pay for their pimps and/or business costs.  

I reckon this represents an inefficient duplication of costs, as most departments have their own management/administration that could do the job if not for the fact that neoliberal ideology forces the public service to outsource not just their workforce, but also by default the people who make a business out of managing and profiting from the outsourced workers. 

Other issues include the loss of corporate knowledge every time the contractors/consultants are let go - it's inefficient to train a new workforce each and every time a department needs to implement a new policy/program and the knowledge gaps make it hard to maintain a handle on what's going on.

There are costs and delays associated with running new recruitment processes.

It's also not necessarily a very satisfying or secure way to make a living for the contractors, who might not like the constant dislocation and who might go for long periods in between work.

But the loony neoliberal ideology must be obeyed - even when in reality it has been demonstrated to cost more and to have failed dismally more broadly."contractors with no corporate knowledge or program knowledge will entirely focus on the narrowly defined issue that they have been contracted to work on and they will totally ignore the peripheral issues, relationships and overlaps with other issues that they are not responsible for"

Yep, but even when contractors know better there are still potential problems given the nature of the business.  I know, for example, contractors who are more than happy to build the customer a bike with square wheels, or even triangular wheels, even when they know full well that the product they are making isn't fit for purpose.

I'm not saying that everyone is like that, but when you will be moving on before anyone actually has to ride their new monstrous bike for any real length of time I reckon there can be less incentive to do make sure the design is right and the product is good in the first place.

Also, contractors who stick their necks out and advise that their instructions are deeply flawed run the personal risk of being easily replaced or not rehired/extended.  Without job security I reckon some contractors are likely to "let the customer park their donkey wherever they want" in order to stay employed, especially in a highly political environment.

Once again, I'm not saying that all contractors are like that, but there is a risk that private industry will provide exactly what the Commonwealth instructs, and provide it good and hard, whether it's what the Commonwealth actually needs or not.   

I also agree with you that privatizing Commonwealth functions, especially the traditionally bread and butter work of the Commonwealth in policy/program development and implementation, opens the door to all sorts of potential corruption and conflicts of interest.Perhaps we should outsource our politicians jobs to one of those highly successful Scandinavian governments?

We could run a tender process and let the market decide who represents the best value for money government; that should placate the neoliberal market god and ensure the citizenry gets the best possible outcome - ho, ho, ho."the ones who do the best are those that listen to their platoon seargent. The ones that fail are those with big heads who think they know everything."

Yep, that's one of the good reasons for a strong public sector - it helps ensure good outcomes for the citizenry at large.  But the neoliberals don't want that.  Instead, they want good outcomes for particular sectors such as big business and the wealthy.

So the neoliberals have cut the public service, and in so doing, they have white-anted the role the public service is supposed to play in making sure that the Commonwealth does in fact work towards maintaining and promoting common wealth.

I thought one of the things one does when compiling stats is to remove the outliers - the extreme numbers at either end of the bell curve - which can distort the overall picture.

One hour a week is employed?  Surely most people who are working one hour a week are more unemployed than employed.

If a full working week is supposed to be 40 odd hours for most people (maybe a dream these days when 'productivity' and 'efficiency' are euphemisms for working harder and longer for less money) surely the people working one hour a week represent outliers that should be removed from the stats?

Or are the hours that most people work so radically different from what constitutes the 40 hour 'norm' that working one hour a week actually represents a significant % of the workforce?

If yes, I wonder what kind of % are we talking about? 

Maybe it's time for that revolution Alpo mentions, God knows we need some transformative change to address the big issues."they complicate the picture, so they're omitted"

And therein lies the rub James in Brisbane.

Anyone who has even a crude understanding of statistics (like me) knows that you need to use more than one thing/number to describe any phenomena very accurately; however, our politicians are overly fond of using just one thing/number to hang their entire argument off of.  

This is partly so they can simplify things for members of the public who lack a very good understanding of numbers (which is a bit of a cop out really because it should be our politicians job to explain things so that the public can actually understand what is going on), but I reckon it's mostly because it enables them to make distorted if not completely untrue arguments.

It's an old, old snake oil type of sales trick, but one that people don't seem to have woken to because it still gets played out just about every day - e.g. relying on say a single GDP figure as 'the measure' of how well our nation is tracking.
Hi cangaiman

Yep, I reckon you're right that we are being sold out - I think our agency, values, happiness, wellbeing, and nature are being treated by our leaders basically as some kind of ballast or dead weight that needs to be ejected in an extremist capitalist race to the bottom.

I agree that the situation should be discussed more openly; however, I reckon that some kind of 'group think' phenomena is at play wherein public discussion from our political/economic leadership is pretty much limited to reinforcing the path we are on and demonizing and ostracizing anyone who dares mention that it mightn't be wise.

Group think can be both a positive and a negative thing.  In the best case it can enhance group cohesion and enable even small groups of people to accomplish great things, but in the worst case it can lead to outright disaster as warnings are not heeded, people fudge their work to make their results comply with group norms/goals, and dissenters are ostracized and bullied into silence.

The trick is determining whether the group is on track for success or disaster; which is not necessarily an easy thing to do because the data that flows from within an organization/establishment that is in 'group think mode' cannot necessarily be trusted on face value.  

That's why I agree with you that it's important to test ideas frankly and fearlessly in public debate/discussion.  

If it turns out that we cannot even have an honest and open discussion with our leaders, then I think it's very hard to argue that a broader revolution/transformation isn't necessary.   
"This has arisen because much of the research published on behalf of commercial interests has been manipulated to have a certain result."

Yeah this happens, but what concerns me more are claims that the policy boffins at the nexus between climate change science and economics/politics have 'cooked the books' so that the current piddling and ineffectual global approaches/efforts to prevent AGW can be sold to decision makers and the public as being appropriate.  

The reason for these shenanigans being that truly effective solutions to prevent AGW would probably impact on economic growth, which makes them unpalatable to mainstream politicians/economists, so inconvenient facts about the grave nature of the situation have been 'glossed over' in order to preserve the sacred cow of economic growth at what will ultimately prove to be everyone's expense.

"Labor has at our core the values that can revitalise our political system and restore faith and confidence in the power of democratic government to resolve our differences and surmount our difficulties."

I don't think so.

I don't think Labor has at its core the courage or inclination to take the kind of radical transformative actions that are needed to "surmount our difficulties".  In fact, I reckon Labor is suffering from pro-growther ideological psychosis which prevents them from taking any meaningful action to save us from the highway to ecological hell that we are barrelling down.

The fact that our ecological problems keep ramping and Labor keeps ranting about the need for more economic growth, and thus evermore ecological problems, demonstrates that they are outmoded.  And it's not even as if the model of civilisation we are trashing the planet to maintain is even all that satisfying to live in - unless I guess you are both soulless and rich.

It's no real wonder then that interest/support for outmoded Labor, and for the outmoded Liberals as well, is falling.

It will take some kind of really significant revolution in Labor's political/economic ideology to give them the capability of tackling our grave ecological issues and win back support.  I'm not sure that more democracy or whatever within the Labor ranks will make a whole lot of difference in this respect, unless of course it removes barriers to far more widespread and meaningful change; although I don't hear anything leaking out from within Labor along those lines, so I guess Labor will continue "steering us straight for the rocks".

Rampant corruption doesn't help the Labs/Libs either, but then corruption is hardly surprising given that being captured by industry and vested interests goes hand in glove (or perhaps hand in brown paper bag filled with unmarked, non-sequential bills) with greedy, selfish and psychotic pro-growtherism. 

If you've read the above it won't come as a surprise to you that I lost my faith in Labor a long time ago and I don't see it coming back any time soon.  This being said, I reckon Labor will drive us into the rocks at a marginally slower pace (what with their token climate change policies etc.) than the Libs who are hell bent on running full speed ahead into oblivion.  Oh well; I guess there are always the Greens or maybe some independent to vote for instead.  And let's not forget that some of the independents are at least good for a bit of a spectacle/laugh; I mean, who wouldn't want to distract themself from serious issues in the absence of meaningful action to address them?  
V

Couldn't the Swiss, or whoever else who may want a 'people's militia' or whatever rather than a standing army keep the weapons of its citizens in armouries rather than in their homes?  

It seems to me that then in the event of rising tensions or war the people could then head to an armory for weapons, but remain safe from themselves in times of peace.Well, I reckon any government/organisation that knowingly takes actions that will in all probability result in ecocide/holocaust is psychotic at best and a death cult at worst.     

Just because the world's governments/organisations haven't shepherded enormous numbers of people into an AGW slaughterhouse quite yet doesn't exonerate them.  

Death is death; sure there are different ways to go and some are probably more pleasant than others, but I doubt the people who find themselves dying prematurely because of AGW are going to spend much time splitting hairs over whether their deaths, which could have been prevented but weren't due to political/economic ideological psychosis, greed and selfishness, are more or less awful than being beheaded at the hands of some other 'death cult'. 

I'm also pretty far from convinced that taking action to prevent the worst of AGW is a 'leftist' cause.  Instead, I reckon this is just a rational and humane thing to do.  Now, it may be true that there is a deficit of reason and humanity among some right wing loonies who are insanely opposed to doing anything to prevent AGW, but I don't think it's fair to say that everyone on the 'right' lacks these qualities.
Fair comment DA.

Grave environmental problems represent a far greater existential threat to Australia than IS. 

Which makes me wonder what ASIO can or will do to protect Australians from our rapacious domestic 'death cult'?

Because I fear they don't plan on doing anything, except maybe exercise their powers to repress dissent and opposition to the 'centre of power' that is herding everyone down the road to nowhere.Housing unavailability/unaffordability is just another symptom of our increasingly damaging and costly growth based economic system.

No disrespect intended, but diddling around with say interest rates or negative gearing isn't going to solve much if anything.  I mean, sure, we can argue over the merits of changing some of the settings of our economic system, but any changes that might flow from this will probably be modest at best and at worst will prove unsatisfactory because competition and growth are core features of our economic system. 

The system is outmoded and needs transformation and it's time to ask bigger questions.  So, why not examine our options with a view to making changes that might actually have a chance of resolving the issues?

Instead of thinking about say, interest rates with respect to a particular aspect of our system like housing availability/affordability, why not question the function that interest/usury serves in a broader sense and ask whether it's still appropriate to maintain an economic system that includes usury, or whether we should move on to something new altogether.  There are, for example, theorists who argue that 'reverse interest' is a better mechanism than usury.

There is more than one way to do things, it's clear that we haven't achieved perfection, so why not try for something really worth going for?  
Hi EEL

Okay, I think we can agree that usury/interest serves a purpose in the system as it stands; however, if we transform the system into something completely different it mightn't be as necessary, or maybe even necessary at all.

I reckon you're right that interest is comprised of various charges for different things such as insurance against risk (although I'm not sure how useful the system is at covering risk now that we?ve had the GFC and now that AGW is on the scene) etc..  However, I also reckon that a big chunk of interest charges are just premiums charged by capitalists, who don't necessarily have to do much more work to make their profits than put an obstacle in the way of commerce (money), open their safes to provide it, and then tax the transaction.  

There are also significant downsides to interest/usury, I'm thinking in particular of the fact that there is never enough money to pay off the debts, thus creating the need for endless and increasingly destructive growth.
  
It also seems to me that capitalism works by monetizing things that people should by rights get for free and probably would if capitalism didn't exist.

I reckon that if the whole system was cleverly transformed/rearranged we might find that there's a sufficient abundance of necessary goods/items to meet almost everyone's needs.  It would then be in everybody's interests to share, or gift, any surplus production - after all, goods spoil/break even in storage so why not use them rather than let them rot/waste and earn some goodwill?  In that way everyone would become everyone else's noble benefactor and there would be less need for interest.

So what would motivate individuals to work in the new system if not to accumulate money, say by charging interest, and acquiring goods primarily for themselves?

Well, one idea might be to give people status in society for performing meritorious deeds.  I think this type of approach has worked in some cultures before, e.g. potlatch ceremonies, so perhaps it could work again. 
Sounds good to me graazt - maybe a gross national happiness index of some kind like what they have in Bhutan.
