Matthew Dal Santo seems to be saying that Russia has some geopolitical historical rights that give it some intrinsic ownership of the Ukraine.   If that means the conflict will be best solved by the West stepping out of the way and allowing Russia to take ownership of the Ukraine, then why not apply the same formula to Northern Ireland, Palestine, Sri Lanka, etc etc...I'm sure Mike Carlton would probably agree with you..."Jews are not a race."

"So lets get the facts and logic right before hysterically labeling every insult as "racist"."

Actually, the Jewish people ARE an ethnic race!  Judaism is a religion.

Facts are good....     And yeah...  The Semitic people of the Middle East extends to cover a large proportion of the Arabic population and does not simply include Jewish people.That's right! Bob Carr was borderline anti-Semitic when he stated that the Australian Jewish Lobby had too much influence in the PM's office...

The issue as I see it is that if you express an opinion such as "I think Israel's demolition of Gaza and the killing of 2,000 civilians is simply wrong" then you are suddenly an anti-Semite."Ever since the Budget was released, I've been asking, does Tony really WANT a recession? "

Tony doesn't WANT a recession, but his ideological masters DON'T CARE if we have a recession.  Gina, Twiggy, et al can just chill out in the Bahamas until it sorts itself out..."The first precaution is to look at the margin of error in the figure. Was there any?"

Possibly, even probably, but then it will have been the same margin of error in all the previous monthly figures and a trend is, well, a trend, even if it has a margin of error!Leaving Janda's observations out of it for the moment, is it your contention that the trends in the two rates since 2011 are not evident?With all the reports of job losses in the news, how can anybody have been 'surprised' by this result?

Or maybe the blathering rhetoric of Eric has already got all those dole bludgers applying for jobs?   

Or maybe those single mothers forced onto NewStart have joined the queue of job seekers?  Or perhaps those who have been fraudulently claiming a disability pension?

It's no surprise to me!   An ideological blueprint of a budget that will only result in a contraction in the wider economy will result in an increasing number of job losses while the participation rate will be forced up by all those one legged blind people being deemed not to be "disabled".   Net result is an unemployment rate that will increase twice as fast as might have otherwise!"It is time for Australians to stand up!"

I Agree!

"We need a rational debate"

Again, I agree!!!

"regarding the unstoppable rate of migrants coming here"

Ahhh..  there goes the "rational" bit straight out the window!

"We have managed to exchange our manufacturing base for Asia's population base"

Australia NEVER had a "manufacturing" base.   Well not one that wasn't propped up with government protectionism.   Besides, we all rode here on the Sheep's Back, didn't we?

"And these people are prepared to work for a fraction of the wages that should be paid."

There is a legislated minimum wage which the rabid right are always bleating on about on this forum, so what's the problem?"Everyone has the right to be an incoherent dribbler you know, and I must confess there's something morbidly fascinating in watching someone drown under the weight of their own pomposity."

It has more to do with being driven by blind ideological belief rather than reasoned and logical policy.   A good analogy are those of a particular religion who have an ideological issue with birth control trying to justify claims that condoms in Africa are not a good thing.

The question for the rest of us is do we want public policy formulated on the strongly held opinions of a few extremist ideologues?"Does everyone's data really need to be collected &amp; stored for two years?"

Well, just think of 9-11.   Prior to the event the secret services knew nothing of the individuals or their terrible plans.    With two years of "metadata" on hand they would have been able to reconstruct their abject failure to identify and stop a terrorist threat with far less time and effort!"This seems to be the view from Abbott and Brandis and all the surveillance agencies, all of who would cheerfully sell their grnadmother for greater non-monitored tapping power."

Isn't it funny how the LNP have been whining and carping about the ALP resulting in "Big Government" and now they want to replicate Big Brother Government?   Where is the outrage from the likes of Chris Berg and his neoliberal playmates?"I feel as if we are all in a giant orange lifeboat - without a rudder."

On a point of order, those orange lifeboats don't steer very well even WITH a rudder!

They are also the easiest and fastest way to get seasick!"I think this is more of a case of don't mention the budget!"

Budget?   What budget?"I really hope that people consider properly this concept of 'reverse onus' that the Abbot-led Government is trying to introduce under the blanket of a 'security emergency'"

We should turn that flame thrower back on to Abbott &amp; Co.

Just as an example, they should have to prove that they have a mandate for all the budget rubbish they have come up with since they got elected.

Firstly, it look as though those teenagers who have now been arrested for racial abuse of a bus full of school kids jumped the gun on their right to be bigots.

Secondly, trying to legislate against intent is pointless!   Just ask the ATO!

If somebody wants to commit an act of terrorism at home or abroad, then there is no legislation that will stop them, assuming they smarter than the average politician of course.   Any such legislation will only impinge on regular citizens with no ill intent while Tony Abbott's "bad guys" will go about their business through slightly more devious means." The ineptitude of the LNP in handling this contradiction is laughable and worrying "

it's nowhere near as inept or worrying as the failure of the media to challenge Abbott &amp; Co on their blatant hypocrisy...That's a very valid point, although I'm sure the legislation will clearly enunciate the difference between and Australian answering the call to do National Service in Israel and an Australian National answering the call to defend his family in Gaza..."People are in more danger of being injured by a skateboard than a terrorist attack."

Actually, since skateboards are not allowed in many places we are more likely to be injured by an invalid whizzing along at 10km/h in pedestrian spaces on a 200kg gopher!

(ask me how I know....   :-(The Abbott and Brandis explanation of "Metadata" is the same as them saying that they want to know if you went to visit a house of ill repute or not, but don't want to know exactly what you did once you were inside!You get what you vote for, mate!" You get what the MAJORITY vote for...  only a little over two years to go and the lying, promise-breaking LNP will be back where they belong in opposition"

Not when a MAJORITY will vote to "Stop the Boats" even if they have to do that from the dole queue!

"And if government interferes too much, the much-needed investors will simply go to other countries. Taxes kill investment mate, and investment provides jobs. ."

Rubbish!  Pure unmitigated ideological Rubbish!

There very few jobs in mining production, which makes it a very profitable business in this country."Contrast this with Norway (which now has a sovereign investment fund worth in excess of $1 million per Norwegian citizen from its North Sea Oil revenues) and I think it's simply indicative of the low standard of our political 'elite' (in brackets because I use the term very advisedly) and the ever decreasing attention span of our electorate."

Frank..  when North Sea Oil was first discovered and Norway set about making sure they got their sovereign share from the outset, along with ensuring generous remuneration and working conditions for offshore oil workers, the economic right said that Norway would be priced out of the market, that oil producers would look elsewhere to invest, and that Norway and Norwegians would be left behind and endure a lower standard of living as a result.

Does any of that sound familiar?

Ian Verrender shouldn't worry so much!   Joe Hockey has promised to deliver economic growth and a budget surplus.   With a promise like that from a man of Joe's calibre, what could possibly go wrong?"This has been coming for a few years and the left of politics have not been prepared to admit it happy to pin the faith on rubbery forward estimates. "

Rubbery figures work both ways.  Treasury underestimated growth and revenue every year from 1999 to 2007.    Treasury overestimated growth and revenue every year from 2008 to 2012.   Oh yeah...  something about a GFC in 2008 but according to the right no such thing ever happened because Australia never suffered a recession like the rest of the world.


"Global mineral resources are plentiful and people are going to see just how easy it is to price yourself out of the market."

That would explain why Rio Tinto, BHP Billiton, and FMG have all reported record production in the last quarter, right?  

"Our standard of living in Australia and wage expectations are way too generous for the income we generate and the debt we carry."

You are right about the income!  We don't generate enough of it because the income we SHOULD be generating is sailing over the horizon in the holds of bulk iron ore carriers.

"Problem being some people don't know there is a hole in the roof until the ceiling falls in."

Dead Set!   Just as well you have that big leftie bogey to blame when that happens...

"Yep - should have left it in the ground. That would fix all our problems!"

Should be taxed at a fair and reasonable rate like oil and gas.   That would solve a lot of our problems, like pensioners having to pay to visit their GP...."Really, so you'd like the Central Planning Committee to have something shovel ready?

Is that how you'd do things?"

Sounds a whole lot better than a new government coming up with an ideological blueprint instead of a budget, none of which was tabled as part of their election platform." I work in mining ...   What right does anybody have to expect that taxpayers will basically guarantee their jobs?"

The Australian Taxpayers are propping up the mining sector by letting them get away without paying their share of tax on Australian sovereign resources.   

"I assure you that nobody gives a rats' when people in our industry get laid off."

I can assure you that remuneration in the mining sector is on the way down.   I can also assure you that as soon as the big mining companies are done with the mines they will pack up and leave in 60 seconds.  If they did it in Ravensthorpe they can do it anywhere.   And they will toss you and your workmates on to Joe Hockey's six month waiting list without a second thought."Sorry, but the industry pays what it legally has to"

The real story is that the Mining Industry had to pay well above the mandated rates as the resources boom was booming in the noughties.   Now that is tapering off they are starting to reduce remuneration for semi skilled labour.    I have been speaking to quite a number of FIFO people who have had more than one cut to their remuneration package over the last 18 months.

"if you don't like that rate then complain to the guvvament"

That's exactly what the mining companies did during the resources boom.  The result was the invention of the 457 visa.

"do you pay more tax than you legally have to?"

Well, "legally" I have to pay an extra 3% for the next three years thanks to a government that stated before the election that the only government that would increase taxes would be a Labor government.  I guess Tony omitted to mention that he was really talking about increasing taxes on the multinationals...

"but those of us with degrees can move on."

you have a degree?  really?
"Correction - I meant that the industry pays the tax that it legally has to."

So does Twiggy Forrest and Clive Palmer...  And so do millions of honest people working for the average wage.   They all pay what they legally have to.   The only difference is that Rio T and BHPB don't have to feed the kids, pay the rent, or buy school shoes."Too many young people go on the dole and it then becomes a way of life."

So the only thing the LNP have to offer the nation's school leavers is a 6 month time delay before their crappy life style kicks in?"Even though our unemployment rate is getting worse the worst is yet to come "

It will be a case of worst and "worster"...    There are serious issues around manufacturing and employment facing Australia.     The overall issue of economic growth and unemployment will be made a whole lot worse if Hockey's budget gets through the Senate because it will drag down small business along with manufacturing."US energy is cheap, it enables, ours disables"

Cheap energy in the USA enables them to be fully exposed to long term price rises in the cost of energy, which will happen.   When it happens, the USA will have an outdated and grossly energy inefficient economy and they will get whacked twice as hard as the rest of the world.

There is a precedent.   The USA applies almost no gasoline taxes because apparently they have a God given right to burn as much of a finite resource as they can.   When GWB invaded Iraq the price of oil more than quadrupled in short order.    In the USA the price of gasoline at the bowser quadrupled and they couldn't afford to go on their annual "driving holidays" in a 10mpg SUV.    In Australia the price less then doubled.   

A few years later they all defaulted on their sub prime mortgages and we had a GFC.

Smart nations will build energy efficient economies in order to prosper in the longer term.   Energy policy needs to be formulated on encouraging users to become energy efficient, and letting them have it cheap today won't help when it's expensive tomorrow and they haven't invested in developing an energy efficient economy.It's also a problem for small business because people with no money don't spend much..."Yep, since those with jobs prop up those without"

You must be a mathematical genius!   94% "prop up" the 6% while every year billions of dollars sails over the horizon in the holds of bulk iron ore carriers...   Is that a "zero sum game"???   Just asking..."You might also admit the fact that the mining industry employs a lot of people who actually pay net tax."

The mining industry does not employ "a lot of people" although anybody working in the resources sector who does not earn enough to pay tax needs a brain transplant..."As at November 2013 the mining industry employed over 277,000 people. I'd call that a lot of people"

That is a little over 2% of the total Australian labour force, so in relative terms it is not a "Lot".   If it is a "Lot" then Hockey's debt tax of 3% is a MONSTER!!!"I dare say that those 277,000 people contribute more to government revenue than several million Labor voters so it would server you well to consider things (as you say) "in relative terms"

I dare say you have no proof of that silly assertion, mainly since your idea of an ALP voter is probably an unemployed person rather than a Doctor or an Engineer.   Therefore, it might serve you well to think of something reasonable and reasoned to say rather then leave yourself open to being dismissed out of hand for offering up silly generalisations and stereotypes.."The effects of rationalisation in the motor industry is not going to increase unemployment by a quarter of a million, that is predicated on not a single person being made redundant finding new work."

So assuming a person made redundant from the motor industry DOES find a new job, isn't that job one of Joe's "opportunities" taken away from the 6.4% already unemployed?   In other words, while we might need to rationalise the motor industry, all those made redundant when the industry disappears ("rationalises"?) will need to have jobs available or they will simply add to the unemployment rate.   Right?

At which point you should address Ted's point that Abbott's plan for a million new jobs has  gone AWOL!   That would make for an argument at least, if not a cogent one."As Micheal Chaney said if people keep denying Australia's rising debt problem and blocking moves to address it the debt will soon become over 20% of GDP. "

That is so easy to fix!   Just dust off the Henry Tax Review and start taxing resources at the ports!"So your reply is tax what little we have going for us until they go some where else is it."

That's just simple scare tactics and jingoism, the same thing they said about Norway at the start of the North Sea oil Boom. 

They have already reduced a watered down MRRT and yet the miners are all reporting record exports and record profits.   They are not going to go anywhere, even with an MRRT.   The resources we have are high grade and we have a hard working and efficient labour force."Either way 'disaster' - whatever. Nothing constructive."

How about Abbott's destruction of the democratic principle of being elected by popular vote on a platform of promises?   Is that "constructive"?    When he goes to the next election with a carpet bag full of promises and commitments, are we supposed to believe him a second time?  If not, then what?If Paula's point is that Abbott and Co are playing the voters like fish, ready to distort and misrepresent the facts to win their way, then I already knew that."As things stand nearly all policy prescriptions introduced have been roundly rejected by the electorate as basically unfair, or too extreme."

The question to be asked is: 

"if Abbott and Hockey had told the electorate of their true intentions before the election would they be in government now?""These senators, love 'em or loathe 'em, are their to vote on policy of their parties and those who voted for them. "

Except that very few people voted for them!  They are there by virtue of preference deals so complex they themselves don't understand how they came to win a senate seat!  

Where have you been living?"The Senate lacks some legitimacy because of this. I hope the major paties can agree to some reform."

The major parties need to reform themselves before they think about reforming the system.  A big factor in the micro parties holding the balance of power in the Senate is that a lot of voters don't want to vote for people like Joe Bullock and Bill Heffernan and send their votes into a black box of preference deals that spits out Ricky Muir and a few others.   If the ALP had their mess sorted Joe Bullock would not have had number one spot and things would probably be a lot different now."I dont think either Clive or Lambie will need a rope to hang themselves. After just a week or two they have managed to demonstrate that neither are fit for office and will no doubt get shown the door next time around."

Clive is a whole lot better than Joh ever was, regardless of the low standard Clive might be setting.   Also, Clive is from Queensland, and Queenslanders will always vote for their own, no matter how unworthy they might be.Reinhard..  I agree!  The really big question is how can voters make an informed vote if people like Abbott make a set of commitments prior to the election and then do the opposite afterwards?  Where is the basis for an informed and democratic vote?  

The logical corollary is that the micro parties will only gain more seats from this point forward because nobody will believe anything any party promises before an election and will just cast their vote in a whimsical and worthless fashion, given that the LNP have just clearly demonstrated the whimsical and worthless nature of their pre-election commitments!"government needs more money they slug us first, bl##dy do gooders and tea totalers"

Not this government, mate.   This mob are slugging people who need to see a GP, parents with kids in school, people who earn more than $180k, and folks who don't have a job.

If you really want a free ride you need to start your own mining export company or have a baby!"Sounds great, but who gets to decide what's "ethical and moral"?"

"That which is good, Phaedrus, and that which is not good, need we ask anybody to tell us these things? "    - PlatoWell, well, well...

Chris Berg is caught in an ideological dilemma!   He claims that the big four banks are too to fail and that " it would be great to get rid of too-big-to-fail. Or at least limit it somehow."

Given that the banks are churning out record profits quarter after quarter, putting a limit on them seems pretty straightforward - Make them pay a super profits levy!   If it's good enough for high wage earners, it's good enough for the banks in my view.    Putting a dent in their runaway profitability will also slow down lending and in turn the housing bubble.

And there is Chris Berg's dilemma!    He goes on at length with the history of banks and loan society and banks bail outs and what a bad thing that was.   He offers no possible solutions and simply states that the politicians will do what they will do on the day.   The reason he can't see the obvious answer to the problem is because Chris is ideologically blind to anything to do with taxation!Maynard..  They might be your ALP, but they are certainly not my ALP, which means they cannot be OUR ALP.   From my perspective they are a VFZ (Value Free Zone!) and even if they had a mind to implement sensible and valuable public policy they are utterly devoid of the political nous required to get it past an ill informed, if not ignorant, voting public."I think Berg, and the IPA are just fishing for possible politically acceptable solutions come the next, soon to be, recession."

I don't think people realise the seriousness of the economic downturn that is coming as a result of the Abbott and Hockey ideological economic blueprint.    It's not that we are heading for a recession, it's that they are engineering a set of structural economic changes that will see Australia slide gently into a prolonged and permanent period of low and negative growth.

The signs are already there, with more and more jobs losses being announced at the same time that the big miners announce more and more resources being exported with minimal contribution to the Australian economy.  

If you are in small business or on a minimum wage in Western Sydney, then as you enter your six month waiting period for your CentreLink payment, always remember  that you voted for this!The salient point being that between Chris Berg and Peter the Lawyer there are zero, nil, and nada suggestions in relation to what to do about an obvious and serious problem.   Just let the politicians, the "servants of the people" do what they will after the crises have landed!

HA ha ha ha ..."It would be a waste of their time, along the lines of trying to explain physics to monkeys. Why bother?"

No different from trying to explain the scientific reality of Anthropogenic Global Warming to people who have an ideological basis for choosing to the deny the facts and the truth.Ian Verrender wrote "Given we are in the process of transforming the nation into a quarry, and that not one major resource giant has deferred or scrapped a project because of the Minerals Resources Rent Tax"

Both Rio Tinto and Fortescue have just report record iron ore production for the last quarter.   That means record exports and that means Australia's sovereign wealth waving goodbye!

So, production and exports actually increased with the MRRT in place.   Now we get cuts to health and education instead, along with a debt tax.    You just have to admire a brilliant ideological sleight of hand when you see it, even if you are the victim of the rip off!Therein lies the problem!

Tony Abbott "genuinely believes" that man made global warming is crap.

Pope Francis "genuinely believes" that God exists.

My neighbour's 5yo "genuinely believes" in the tooth fairy...

Does anybody "genuinely believe" that there can be any legal recourse against a Financial Advisor based on the veracity of what that person claimed to "genuinely believe" about the quality of the advice he gave at the time he or she was giving it?Taking a bottom up approach...

"Mark Rantall is the CEO of the Financial Planning Association"

No need to read the article above and no point in reading it.   I already know what it the views and opinions expressed will be.Agree 100% with both points!

I stopped using "professional" financial advice ten years ago and I don't care about the FauxFA reforms because I won't be needing any protection from scammers in suits!"After the last few weeks I had come to believe that most posters on the Drum were so poor that they couldn't afford $7 to visit a doctor."

Oh come on, Realist!   It's obvious that the Chardonnay Sipping Chattering Classes of the imaginary left that supposedly are the only patrons of the ABC were actually worried about OTHER people who cannot afford a hike in the price of a visit to the doctor.

Of course, giving a proverbial about somebody other than yourself is probably something you can't quite connect with...  Never Mind...."We have a royal commission into unions and most left leaning media organisations are ignoring it."

That's probably because there simply AREN'T any "Left Leaning" media organisations.   There might be a few that sit to the left of the Murdoch Media and 2GB, but that would still leave them to the right of centre and certainly not "left leaning"...."I'll have to be convinced that I would be better off with cryptocurrency and so far I am not."

Oh ye of little faith, Mr Yank.

The only reason those numbers on your computer screen and mobile device have any REAL value is because we all simply believe they represent REAL money!   It could all be a huge con trick for all we know!

Alternatively, if we all stop believing, what then?"I hate banks, but I have found that they accept liability for funds removed from my bank account."

They have no choice!   If money is debited from your account at any time it is up to the bank to prove you authorised the transaction.   This is the price the banks have to pay for closing branches and cutting their work force as part of the push into cyber banking."Why doesn't anyone ever mention the lack of revenue and also add in the fact that revenue raising departments of Government have been privatised both Federally and State."

Because the big money and the power don't want to pay their way, while pensioners pay $7 to visit their GP..Tony Abbott set about redefining the political landscape, starting when he was in opposition.  His rhetoric and behaviour took the tone of politics to a new low.   Once in government he started trashing established protocols which included inserting a belligerently partisan Speaker and terminating the tenure of the Head of Treasury.

He was always going to reap what he sowed.   I just didn't think it would happen this quickly and I didn't expect his karma to be delivered by Clive.

The real concern is that our political system, being based as it is on the Westminster system predicated on "Gentlemen's Agreements" and protocols, has been rendered ineffective and no longer fit for purpose.I suspect Chris Berg gets a warm fuzzy feeling when anything transpires that might cripple or interfere with the process of government, because in his view "government is the problem"...There is equally nothing "progressive" about letting the multinationals take our resources without paying a fair price for them.

Australia will not sink!   It will simply capsize once all the ballast has been dug up and sent overseas with the profits disappearing into tax havens...Alpo.. A point of order!    I think when you wrote "Neoliberal Revolution" you actually meant "Neoconservative Coup"!

"We the people voted to be represented, not ridiculed, the only people looking like a bunch of over privileged, ignorant and arrogant, school yard bullies, are those politicians doing the sneering, at those senators chosen by the people. "

Actually, this statement got me thinking about the empirical evidence...  I was trying to recall any "sneering" at the cross bench senators by other politicians, and I don't recall any.   I have heard plenty from Clive and Lambie directed at the government and particularly Abbott, but not the other way.   

In which case, if there has been any "sneering" at the minority senators, then it can only have come from the media."She seems to be saying 'look at moi'. I hope she doesn't think that being loud and aggressive is a positive trait. She definitely has an ego."

Try that description on Tony Abbott and what do you get?Chris Berg obviously think there is nothing wrong with an unemployed saw miller with a 4WD fetish, whose only knowledge of the geologic time scale and anything "fossil" probably comes from watching Jurassic Park, getting to decide on national emissions policy.  

In that case, why not have fifteen year old high school drop outs who just got wasted on alcopops for the first time decide on Alcohol policy and excise?

The answer in both cases seems obvious...Oh..  I certainly wouldn't rate Joe Bullock as any more informed or enlightened than the 4WD bloke.   I would prefer they were both sent back to school, along with a few of the other lumps of fossilised dead wood taking up space on the leather in both houses!If I WAS being bigoted, which I don't think I was, then George Brandis says it's OK and I have a right to be a bigot.   That would be my democratic right, according to George, and you wouldn't be denying my democratic rights, would you?" they can hardly string a coherent sentence together"

Joh Bjelke Petersen
Steven Fielding
Barnaby

" and seem to think they are in government and can pull all their strings"

All of the rest!"They're standing up against billions of dollars of welfare cuts that the Abbott government intends and which the Australian public don't want and were never told about."

Just wait until Clive gets presented with a clear choice between 

1.  Keeping the mining tax and keeping the school bonus

2.  Abolishing the mining tax and also the school bonus

at that point you'll find out exactly what Clive is prepared to stand up against!"You place quite a reliance on Tony Abbott holding his ground, don't you? -- I don't think he will."

You mean you think he will step back from his ideological budget and go back to his pre-election promises and commitments?   Really?I don't quite follow your logic, either.

Are you now saying that Abbott with pursue the abolition of the Mining and Carbon taxes even if it blows an even bigger hole in the budget?"And for Bob Day's final two fingers to the idea of government, he believes in the Laffer curve and says that there is "overwhelming evidence" that reducing marginal tax rates will result in an overall increase in government tax revenue. "

Right.   Ireland tried that, and two things happened.

1.  Profits from Apple were shipped out of Australia and not taxed in Ireland.

2.  Ireland ended up being one of the "I"s in "PIIGS"..." I just wish the media would stop giving his nonsense economic claims a free pass. It is time those views were shown up as the shonky, ideologically driven and dangerous nonsense that they are."

And what about the LNP's nonsense economic claims?  Isn't it time those views were shown up as the shonky, ideologically driven and dangerous nonsense that they are."Does anyone really know what he thinks?"

I strongly suspect he himself doesn't know what he thinks, mainly because he hasn't had cause to pause and think about much at all prior this most recent development.We are imply moving further and further away from being able to carry out the structural reform to the tax system that we need in order to achieve a sustainable economic future.  The Henry Review, remember?   We are now doomed to a future that mirrors the USA:

+  Government moving further to the right and delivering budgets that are nothing more than a NeoCon ideological blueprint for a dog eat dog society where only the super wealthy will prosper.

+  The big miners and corporations (Google, Apple) raking money out of the Australian economy and assets (ie Resources) and shipping them overseas to tax free jurisdictions

+  The minority parties poking holes in what's left, making a total joke of an equitable tax system and getting to impose their crackpot single issue minority views on the majority with the help of the government which has no other mission other than to implement their ideological blueprint.

USA, here we come!   An uneducated ignorant nation where those living below the poverty line increase in number every year as the super wealthy get wealthier!   Crime and prison populations will continue to increase as a result.  The debt and deficit will continue to increase while the nations real wealth is exported to bank accounts the Cayman Islands.   

And every three years the uneducated and ignorant voters will stoke the cycle at the ballot box!   Turkeys don't vote for Thanksgiving, but that's only because turkeys cannot grasp the intellectual significance (ie - the LACK of...)  of Thanksgiving!Rusty

You really should try and keep up with the REAL news...   The evidence is against your rusted on assertion!

"Australia's prison system is crowded to bursting point, with new attitudes towards crime and punishment sending record numbers of people to jail.

Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) figures show there are now more than 33,000 inmates - the highest number ever in Australia - and jails in every state and territory except Tasmania are overflowing."



http://www.abc.net.au/news/2014-07-02/austrlaian-prison-overcrowding-female-populations-growing/5567610"Ian, where were you when the ALP stripped further funding from ASIC"

That would be the same ALP government that cut $900m from Tertiary education spending and put single mothers onto NewStart to save money, which is also the same ALP government that indulged in reckless spending and debt and deficit, right?If I were a victim of the type of despicable fraud that CBA inflicted on people under the ruse of "Financial Advice", I would skip the approach and review stage and head straight on down to the banking ombudsman's office!   There is no point in wasting time and effort on dealing with the perpetrators of the crime against you when you can pretty much guess the outcome!"The Age of Entitlement is staying firmly at the top."

Hockey's claim that the Age of Entitlement is over is nothing more than an ideological statement.   He and his neocon supporters want a low cost bare bones society at their disposal to use a resource to make more money and pay no tax on the earnings.

The Media are just pathetic in failing to challenge Hockey's nonsense ideologically based homily.    I have worked hard and smart for the last thirty years and I have more wealth than I had in the eighties.  I also have more debt, but the debt is leverage and represents a much smaller proportion of my total wealth than a personal loan for a car back when I started.    Having achieved all this, I now feel "entitled"!   I think I am entitled to live where I want, drink wine with dinner that I like rather than can afford, drive the car I WANT, and go on holidays when and where I like.

On the macro scale, Australia has grown it's National wealth and standard of living over the last thirty years, and we are the envy of the developed world in every respect.    Having achieved all this, Joe Hockey now tells us the age of entitlement is over.     Is he telling us we worked our backsides off as a nation for the last thirty years just to have less rather than more today?  Really?   What was the point of it all then?    And what is the end game?  a society of serfs living in slums and the corporations paying just enough tax to keep the military trained and equipped to keep a lid on the population?"The right hates the society it has created"

Would that be because they hate themselves and are taking it out on society and the wider world?

It's also ironic that the neoliberals continually complain that the "lefties" are making a mess of everything when in fact the right are in firm control and have been in firm control for the last twenty years!     So, not only do The right hate the society it has created, they continually complain that it's fault of the bleeding heart lefties even thought the left is no longer left of centre and has not had enough years in office to pull society back towards the the middleJust because you think a person might have some positive attributes doesn't necessarily mean you agree with their point of view or would vote for them and their ideological agenda....Given the need for austerity and budget savings, how about this for an idea?

Since the parties all vote in a bloc along party lines, why do we need all the senators and MPs to sit around getting paid when we already know they are just going cast their ballot as they are told to do by their leaders?  Instead, we could just hold elections and afterwards each party would hold a set number of votes which could be cast in a bloc by their leaders?   That way, the parliament would be reduced to about 10 people in each house!   Think of the money we could save, not to mention the time wasted with hecklers and filibusters..."Voting is only a part of parliamentary work, TJC. It's what goes on behind the scenes that is really important."

Yeah..  I've seen and heard some of the "behind the scenes" stuff from the likes of Cory Bernardi and Joe Bullock and none of it sounds like work worth paying a salary for!Perhaps less inequality is all we need rather than equality?"But one thing worth noting Greg forgot to mention at 30% Australia's business tax is one of the highest in the OECD."

Taking the weighted numbers, Ireland has the lowest rate in the OECD and they have been in the news in recent years for the way their economy is going..

Meanwhile, Japan has just announced a cut in their company tax rate from 36% to 30%, the same as Australia, and Abbott and Hockey are going to add 1.5% to the Australian rate to pay for their gold plated PPL scheme.

So.. company tax rates are what they are.  Have you got a point to make beyond that?   Do you think that Australia should follow Ireland's example and drop the rate?"We believe in a progressive tax system, and when we add GST and medicare, we expect the richest to be paying around 65% in tax. Are they really doing so."

You must be joking!   Run a $10m a year Pty Ltd company and pay yourself $180k per annum to avoid the debt levy.   Total tax bill after deductions about 30%.   Meanwhile, accumulate the cash in the company after paying 30% company tax and drip feed it out to yourself as a fully franked dividend when you retire early." Australia does not have the courage to correct the problems that we have created by voting in Labor governments that are reliant on the votes of these welfare recipients and big government dependents."

You must be talking about first home buyers, solar panel monkeys, family benefit recipients, people with private health insurance, and people who send their kids to private schools!   That's because the employment rate has been around 5% for the last 20 years and 5% of the voting public who receive unemployment benefits is not a strong base from which to win elections..  don't you agree?"I was involved in one case and it took 2 years to finally get rid of a person who was rorting the system hell west and crooked. Not that hard eh, I don't think so."

I have never had any trouble getting rid of employees who have shown themselves to be unsuitable for the work they were hired to do.    However, there's an old adage about the basic requirements for being able to teach a dog to do tricks...."Most difficult sackings are due to sexual harassment or racial discrimination."

Those are the easiest of all.   In cases where it's clear that is what has happened they will all simply resign when faced with the alternative of having to answer for their words and actions.

In cases where it's not clear and comes down to hearsay any sensible employer would do well to make a choice and provide the other party with an incentive to leave.    A lack of workplace harmony will do more damage to productivity than the unions or legislation ever will."A small business employer will be required to provide evidence of compliance with the Code if the employee makes a claim for unfair dismissal to Fair Work Australia, including evidence that a warning has been given (except in cases of summary dismissal). Evidence may include a completed checklist, copies of written warning(s), a statement of termination or signed witness statements."

So WHAT exactly is wrong with that or even HARD about that?   

As the owner and manager of an SME it seems fair enough that anybody who gets fired deserves due process.   I've produced plenty of written warnings and they have all been case specific rather than form letters.  It's not that difficult.   

Think of it like marriage and divorce!   You get married and then your partner does one little thing to annoy you.   That is not grounds for divorce.     Repeated infringements might be, but only if they persist in the face of repeated counselling and written warnings.   And if it does end in divorce, then you are yourself equally to blame unless it was a shotgun wedding."I am going to take a punt. I am going to assume you're a small business owner."

Actually, based on what TC wrote I don't think he has any direct experience of business, large or small.    He's probably the economic equivalent of "Norm" that armchair "sportsman" from those get active adverts in the seventies." Had a trip from Perth to Kalgoorlie recently. All of the small towns on the way have streets paved with gold."

Maybe you should have taken a detour through Goomalling, Dowerin, and Wyalkatchem?"Yes we have second rate managers because most with a brain go overseas, for more money."

That just cannot be right!   I thought this whole discussion was about Australians being overpaid and needing to take a remuneration cut to make us competitive with "overseas".   If that's true, then you could only go overseas for LESS money...If you want to improve Australia's enterprise productivity then simply dump the GST!   Quick easy instant improvement.

Bad for unemployment though as all those bookkeepers and accountants head for the dole queue."So, when Steketee hears calls for 'workplace reform', what he should hear is a call for legislative change that makes it possible for businesses to escape the stultifying impact of restrictive work practices, even work practices the business may have agreed to in the first place."

The only stultification my business suffers from is Payroll Tax.   That has nothing to do with workers, dismissal laws, or the unions, and I never agreed to it in the first place!"Or perhaps the escalation of expectations in our community. "

That would be John Howard's "Aspirational Ordinary Australians"..."and Air New-Zealand who pays staff at about 25% less than Quantas is paying staff bonuses from profits"

So how about YOU @gbe?   Are YOU ready for a 25% wage cut?   Or will you be one of those who takes the 25% wage cut of others and uses it as a deposit on a Ferrari?"Companies will not invest in expensive manufacturers or industries, they go were there is least costs.
Buyers will buy where the product is the cheapest - the lowest point."

Not quite!   They will go where there is the most profit and the highest Return on Investment.   And trust me when I tell that mining iron ore and coal in Australia is highly profitable with excellent ROI.     You can check the latest annual reports for yourself!"Mr Abetz is telling lies again to justify bringing in Workchoices Mark II. "

Abetz is just parroting the lines he has been taught by his ideological masters.   It's just like the rest of the budget - the ideology comes first and the words are made up to justify the implementation of the ideological blueprint to turn Australia into the USA's mini-me!"The biggest threat to capitalism is the recent spate of money printing"

If you want to give yourself a fright, then take a look at a ten year chart of the DJIA with dollar volumes.Abbott and Hockey want to shrink the economy which will shrink small business which will shrink the economy further hitting small business even harder!

Meanwhile, they have Warren and Barnaby out and about looking for a sheep's back to ride on because the Mining Boom has boomed and the miners are quickly emptying the quarries and sending the profits to the Cayman Islands!

I've never had  so much fun!!!"Wages will grow under Mr.Shorten sure as the sun will rise tomorrow."

Will they?   By what mechanism?   Will the ALP legislate to force the big miners to keep paying HaulPak drivers $150k when they have a queue of replacements ready to do that work for $125k?

You should accept the simple fact that is was Howard and Costello who allowed the economy to overheat between 1999 and 2004 and they did nothing about it except stoke the fire with tax breaks and pork barreling.    That period was when wages went crazy, and the knock on is now being felt across the economy because your local supermarket has had to compete with BHP and Rio to put a driver behind the wheel of the truck that delivers the groceries you buy!

The current slowing in wage growth was always going to happen and it needed to happen.   It has not happened because Abbott got elected and it won't change if Shorten replaces him.   The job of the government should now be to ensure that they don't make a cooling off of the economy worse by allowing inflation and unemployment to rise.     There was an election promise to create one million jobs.   How is that going, just as a point of interest?I watch the news every night and listen to ABC News Radio every morning and I cannot recall the last time I saw or heard Bill Shorten.   So where does this line that Bill Shorten has all the answers come from?   As far as I can tell he hasn't even been asked a question!"Wages will grow under Labor"

I ask again!   By what mechanism??  Please Explain!"Do the sums. If you like what you see from our incumbent government, then you must be fairly well off already.
None of it bodes well for the lower middle and those below."

It will boil down to the same issue that Howard had with WorkChoices.

Will the many who will be negatively affected by the Ideologically motivated government keystone policy be concerned enough to cast their vote to prevent a worsening of their personal well being?     Or will they vote to "Stop the Boats"?

Tough choices to be made out there in the suburbs!"Work visa's need to be stopped now not in 4 years but now as if you study the numbers of visa's issued and calculate that there are 500,000 jobs out there employing visa workers and not Australians.

500,000 jobs means 500,000 Australian's out of work."

I need a degree qualified engineer with a Masters Degree from a university with a recognised and established track record in Petroleum Engineering.     How many of those are included in the 500,000 Australians out of work?"But at 15Mbps NBN speed, it'll take quite some time to find out."

How about two empty baked bean cans and a piece of string?"Unnecessary.

There's a starving graduate on the corner with another four months to go before she's eligible for Newstart. She'll hand-carry a letter or box of documents to Bourke for the promise of a sandwich."

Good point.   She wouldn't be able to afford the two tins of baked beans required to end up with two empty cans."Australia is undoubtedly a high wage country, but it is also a high cost country. 
We are in trouble in terms of international competitiveness and job losses to other countries have been going on for some time now,"

"Disclosure: I am a retired accountant"

But it would seem you have never heard of a floated Australian Dollar or Exchange Rates or the TWI..."Certainly a lowering of the exchange value of the Aussie dollar would be beneficial overall, but to present this as a simple solution is misleading."

Accepted.   

But that then leads to the conclusion that we need to reduce real wages so that we can compete with emerging economies in the manufacture of motor vehicles, kitchen appliances, and underwear.   In order for that to work, the ENTIRE ECONOMY and GDP need to shrink by the same amount because workers being paid third world wages need third world property values and a third world cost of living.    Are we back to discussing Paul Keating's Banana Republic here?"It just seems to me that we have become too focused on so-called left/right divisions, without thinking about what some of the other underlying changes that are happening could mean for this country that we share."

Agree 100%.

I find it completely incongruous that "business" is calling for wage cuts when they are reliant on people with disposable income to generate their revenues."Dark financial clouds are approaching"

I am inclined to agree, although I am no conspiracy theorist or a person who is easily scared into believing blah blah blah.   However, it would appear that there is a real risk of GFC Mk2 caused this time by the US Fed printing money and overheating the US stock market as a result.   Google John P. Hussman, Ph.D. for a concise summary of the risks.

"a very big test of character for this Government is looming..."

If it happens and Abbott, Hockey and Cormann are still on the bridge then, based on their form so far, we are going to get a demonstration of Macro economic and fiscal policy incompetence that we are not going to enjoy one little bit!"How many times do you neo-commies need to be told you don't grow an economy by spending more than you have and then trying just to tax everyone to death to pay for it?"

Actually, you are quite wrong!  You DO grow and economy when you spend borrowed money.

Further proof of that can be found in the Euro zone right now where all the economies are stagnating after years of austerity budgets.    Since Australia is planning to do the same thing it seems clear we are heading for a period of low GDP growth."For me, the decline of unions will ultimately harm all workers to some degree"

Of course, but then the Union leaders and the leadership became their own reason for existing rather than having the interests of those they represent first and foremost in their thinking.   Sounds a lot like politics generally, don't you think?"The Catholic Church is bigger than the priests who betrayed their vows and commitment to their people."

Just imagine if another L Ron Hubbard appeared and established yet another brand of religious revenue generation.   And imagine that the rules of the new religion were that the priests had to be celibate and would wear frocks.

And what if there was one case, just one, of one of these celibate Priests engaging in the rape of children to which he had "access" because of his religious role?   And what if the hierarchy sought to cover up that one incident and moved the priest to a different franchise?

Just imagine the outrage!  The Media would go feral and be calling for the disbanding and banning of this new religious haven for paedophiles!

And I have to say I could not agree more!"I fail to see why Cardinal Pell's analogy of the truck driver should cause outrage and I doubt that it has, apart from the usual select few"

Please add me to the list of your "select few" who find it outrageous that a person should preach "morality" to the masses on Sunday and then step out the back and rape children!It is simply ideologically driven rhetoric.

Balancing any budget has two parts - inputs and outputs.

Cormann and Hockey keep telling us there is "no option" but to cut this or that and to slug pensioners to visit the GP.   All this while the miners and the banks are all reporting record profits.

The budget could be easily balanced with a sensible tax on super profits.

As an alternative, we could introduce a levy on job losses and job exports!   If the Banks build mega profits by shifting call center jobs to Philippines then hit them with a levy equivalent to double what it would cost to employ an Australian to do the same job.   That would make it more profitable for them to have somebody I can understand on the other end of the phone when I call them to complain.

Same goes for the miners.  They are all cutting jobs right now as their profits hit new records.  Tax them!  Give them an incentive to employ Australians who will pay taxes and support small business with their discretionary spending!"If the co-payment was going to help reduce the budget bottom line then I would have no issues with it."

I would still have issues with it given that the government is handing out a 30% rebate on private health insurance premiums."There may not be a budget emergency. But there are budget problems. That need be addressed now."

Actually, the structural problems needed to be addressed more than 10 years ago when Costello first stated that our changing and aging demographics were going to be a problem in the future.  Instead of using the Mining Boom to prepare for an issue he had identified, he and his PM squandered the nation's future buying votes and another term in government."Welfare spending in this country is excessive and out of control."

Simply not true, unless you include the aged pension and healthcare as being "Welfare".  If that's the case, then the problem would be solved by withdrawing all free healthcare and the pensioners would thus die off sooner and save the taxpayer having to pay their pensions.  

Soylent Green, anyone?

"we only need to learn from Ireland which saw its debt to GDP level grow from about 20% to 100% in 3 years during the GFC."

Ireland's great NeoCon experiment of dropping corporate tax rates to 12.5% failed!   That was supposed to draw the corporations to Ireland and increase the total tax revenue.   FAIL!  The lesson to be learned from Ireland in the context of GDP and debt is "Tax the Miners and Tax the Banks!"

"Australia has never been more vulnerable to a recession as the mining boom ends, our wages are not globally competitive and we lost most of our non mining industry,"

All true, and made worse by the fact that we squandered the best of the boom on nothing much at all..

"We should be reducing not increasing debt."

Even if we reduce government spending, debt as percentage of GDP will continue to increase because GDP will increase a slower rate than the aged pension and we are letting the Miners and the Bank walk away with our money!

"Why not just means test the co-payment and protect the most disadvantaged. Fixed. Next."

Why not dump the private health insurance rebate and double the existing medicare levy?"I am an Australian Christian and I am heading over to Northern Iraq in 3 weeks to help religious minorities "

Then you can expect to interrogated by ASIO on your way back in on the basis that you are guilty until proven innocent and you will need to prove you weren't "up to something" (anything?) while you were there.Removing religion would at least remove the option for rationalising evil deeds on the basis of "I am following the will of God"...sleepykarly wrote "had you mentioned the Reformation Wars, or the Crusades. Now, that is where I (as a Christian) really would be embarrassed! It is much more difficult to explain to the modern, secular mind the forces behind these events. But having studied Church history, I can see that the people involved were not that much different from the typical Jihadist today. "

To which Stockel replied "You fail to understand what the crusades were all about. They were not an attack on Islam per sei they specifically wanted to return Jerusalem to a Christian controlled city again."

Which I think makes it VERY clear what the crusades were all about and I consider the crusades to be not much different to the Islamic extremists on their Jihad today.

Same story!   Territorial conquest dressed up in a religious robe and calling the faithful to answer the call of God to get out there and kill those unbelievers on the other side!

PS&gt; the irony of your statement that "The ME (Syria) at the time was a hodge podge of waring states. " did not escape me!"If one starts with atheism as basis for their world view, then what ever behaviour one feels is morally justified, is (if one has the power) morally justified. This will likely be what most people consider good ... but not always."

Sadly, us atheists have to consider our actions and words very carefully because we must live with our words and actions long after they have been said and done, and we can never obtain absolution or forgiveness from a stranger in a small cubicle!"At least with an atheist you know"

And no atheist is going to condemn innocent children to prison and obtain absolution for that evil deed at the confessional afterwards..."The problem is not religion in general but Islam in particular. "

Tell that to the victims of child sexual abuse at the hands of the Catholic clergy over the last 100 years!"Saying that the ISIS and Boko Haram situations ( et al) are not by and large religious based is absurd, it would like saying the Ebola problem is not a medical condition, its just a side effect."

You are arguing against your own case.   

Ebola is just a virus, a thing, that causes nothing untoward until it comes into contact with humans.   You can think of Ebola as a side effect of the the virus coming in to contact with humans.

Religion is the same thing.   It has no meaning and causes no harm until it comes into contact with humans.

Humans are fundamentally tribal and one only needs to read the world's most popular book for proof of that.   Religion is a human invention and the various tribal inventors have managed to have their invention pasted over the top of the numerous tribal conflicts the world has seen.

Thus Dr Bird is right when he states that eliminating religion will not eliminate conflict, because the conflicts are fundamentally tribal to being with.   As an atheist I choose to disagree with his views on religion and I consider the case he makes to be hollow and meaningless.     

Having said that, I think de Brito attributing religion as the root cause of a child holding a severed human head is equally hollow and meaningless for exactly the same reasons.
That's a good point.   Perhaps Dr Michael Bird could dazzle us with the theological explanation for why a man like Tony Abbott who claims to be a caring Christian is happy to see children in detention?   After all, as the Prime Minister, he has the power to put an end to a most un Christian treatment of his fellow man!"Removing religion from it's high position of control within our communities would be a step in the right direction,

it should be taxed"

Great idea!   Maybe you should suggest that to Tony Abbott as a fix for the budget?  

It's interesting to note how the advent of the "New" Atheists has brought the religious folks out swinging, isn't it?" The natural government of man would be a king."

There is no basis in fact for what amounts to your opinion.   If there was such a basis for a "natural king" then it simply a tribal chief who attained his position by killing all his rivals.

"Representative government is highly unstable precisely because the preconditions are so difficult to maintain."

It's a lot like free kicks in the AFL right now.   The rules made by men and the interpretation of the rules by other men are the real issue.   Still far preferable to religions made by men and interpreted by other old men wearing dresses, though!

"Secularism is a parasitic development that seeks to profit from this moral capital developed by previous generations. "

Rubbish!   Just rubbish!   Followed by a paragraph of recycled garbage.

"Secularism presents its own trinity of gods to the nation. "

More rubbish!

"worshiping at the altar of hedonism, nihilism, and despair"

Absolute crap!   The kind of pseudo religious crap that ignorant people were able to divine from the scribble written down in the Bible.    As if the Christian Church has never destroyed the lives of innocents in the pursuit of hedonism, nihilism resulting in total despair for all it touched.   Just look at the Royal Commission currently underway.

And if you are proposing a religious hegemony instead of democratic secularism, then we can simply expect to destroy ourselves and our society in a series of battles and crusades to determine WHICH false god is the right false god to tell us all how to live our lives and what to think."I think we will find that sooner rather than later that we all will have to confess either our faith in the Lord or recant"

For the record, I state now that there is no God and I have no need of faith in any imaginary supernatural entity.

And if you are worried about home grown violence then turn your efforts and writing towards your elected government who have embarked on an ideological crusade to rip the safety net away from beneath the underprivileged, and they will be the ones who threaten your perceived peace and tranquility.

"Soon you will have to state simply 'yes' or 'no', make a choice, yes to an absolute God or defiance and an accept the consequences."

As stated above, I said "no" yesterday, I say "no" today, and I will say "NO" tomorrow.   I have already accepted the consequences of that.

"It's evident in the fact that all the atheist's that appeal to their subjective opinion" 

Whereas superstitious people are following an objective line of reasoning?   Funny!  Total Scream!

'Why should your atheistic subjective principal be granted more rights than the extremists subjective principal?"

Why should YOUR superstitious pseudo moralist principal be granted more rights than the atheists' humanist principal?

'Don't you accept their right to live their way? "

Absolutely!  AS long as it causes no harm or interference to others!

"On who's authority do you reject it?"

I do not reject it.   You are the one who appears have rejection at the forefront of their thinking!"It rips apart families,"

I refer you to the conduct of the churches in destroying families by driving children to suicide as a result of sexual abuse

"the building block of society"

while at the same time the churches claim to be the custodians and arbiters of morality!

"It is promoting the blanket capitalism that is destroying so many businesses"

TAX the churches!   

"music industry, what is it?"

Modern music has its roots in the blues and jazz of African Americans whose art was inspired by the oppression justified by the texts in the Holy Bible.

"It has allowed the alcohol industry to infest our culture. "

That all started 2000 years ago when some bloke turned water into wine!

"Pacific Magazines consumer moves from the 'Total Girl' to 'Girlfriend' throught a small flirtation with ACP's 'Cosmo' or 'Cleo' before returning to 'Marie Clair' and then 'Vouge' ending up with 'New Idea'. "

I can honestly state I have no idea what you refer to above.  I don't waste my time reading rubbish, but I would never deny others the freedom to read whatever they want, even rubbish!

Actually, on the subject of censorship, I would be very careful allowing any person under the age of 18 access to the Holy Bible, lest they end up with a corrupted set of moral values!"And the sexual abuse? Clearly wrong, but by whose standards?"

By ANY moral standard!   People should never be subject to abuse or violence by other people under any circumstances.   This is a fundamental HUMAN principle!

"I would have to argue that it is by our own christian standards that condemn the action of our own church. "

In other words, the sexual abuse by the clergy is immoral behaviour made doubly immoral because of the inherent hypocrisy of the perpetrators who were preaching "morality" from a pulpit on the prior Sunday.

"Do atheists put their money where their mouth is and feed the poor?"

Definitely!  I donate thousands to charity every year and I make quite certain that not one cent goes towards any form of religious promotion or proselytising.   

For the record, the RSPCA is also on my black list."The Smith Family appears to be a non-religious charity but it doesn't feed the poor."

Disagree.   They deliver food during the festive season to underprivileged."His ability to "pedal" the car seems to be his greatest skill so far."

Absolutely!    His skill with putting the power down and controlling the car was on full display in the wet during practice at Spa.    I haven't anything like that since Ayrton Senna.Cormann is now threatening tax hikes on the wider citizenry to deal to with his concocted budget emergency.   That while the miners and the banks report record profits in the billions.   So, rather than our industries supporting the nation, the nation's citizens support the profits of industry!

If the ALP become conspirators in this great fraud on the Australian People it will only hasten their demise into abject and total irrelevance, with their former supporters turning to the micro parties."Therefore opposing everything is an attempt to regain some ground with their voting base."

Well, that tactic appears to have delivered Tony Abbott some success...Let's just take the GP "Co Payment" (sick tax) as a working example.   ALP and PUP have said they are against it and won't pass it.

"Negotiating" on the sick tax does not amount the ALP and PUP agreeing to pass the measure.   The government needs to come up with some amendments and maybe they could sit down with the ALP and seek to find some common ground.  Just as one possible alternative, the ALP probably would probably prefer to increase the medicare levy rather than make pensioners pay cash to visit a GP, just as an example.

A simple test might also be for Abbott and Hockey to judge their own policies before presenting them to the Parliament.   If it sounds like sticking the boot into those who can least afford it then it probably won't be popular and the ALP needs all the popularity it can get.   Simple enough, really.    Simple, but not obvious to the ideologically one eyed Neocon Monster...Maxine wrote "when faced with an economic policy agenda, the public must be persuaded on two fronts. They must believe the policy is justified by evidence, but they must also agree it is justified in the moral sense."

That explains a lot!

All the evidence points to there not being a "budget emergency" and there is no moral sense in an ideological blueprint for turning Australia into a carbon copy of the USA with the super wealthy driving Ferraris over bridges with families living in a cardboard lean to under the same bridges."Hockey and Abbott (like Howard before them) believe that someone's illness is someone else's business opportunity."

In the latest gaff, Joe Hockey has said that a 50% increase in dental care fees won't hurt poor people as much as wealthy people because poor people have fewer teeth!GWB was warned this would happen....At the time Howard unequivocally stated that he understood that the majority of Australians were not in favour of Australia joining the coalition of the killing, but he felt strongly that it was "the right thing to do".

So much for democracy, hey?"Perhaps the countries of the region could create a NATO-style military bloc to fight insurgency in the Middle East."

Good Idea!   I'm sure Iran would be more than happy to provide the entire military contingent and hardware for free..."That would actually be a PR masterstroke for Israel"

As compared to the PR disaster of using USA donated weaponry to kill more than 2000 civilians in Gaza, you mean?

And then there is the issue of Assad.   If Israel strike the IS then that is effectively helping Assad survive, and Assad is no friend of Israel.

So PR Masterstroke = Strategic FAIL, and it seems clear that ISrael don't care much about their PR image.."they have hidden behind the protection of multicultural policy in Australia "

Say What?   ISIS is hiding "behind the protection of multicultural policy in Australia"???

Crikey!   Did they behead a few reds under the beds to make room to hide themselves?Not to mention Israel..

Maybe they should turn their attention away from civilians in Gaza and start bombing ISIS?  Oh..  Wait..  That would be helping Assad solve his most immediate problem!  
"Its a problem we helped create so a problem we must help solve."

A very true statement.   But what to do?"I find it bizarre and frightening that we are having this conversation."

Was it bizarre and frightening when we had the same conversation in 2003?   If it was, why did it happen anyway then and why can't it happen again this time around?Your post is factually incorrect.  Male Bovine Dung might be a metaphor..

al Maliki was GWB's boy. and his appointment as PM of Iraq had nothing to with Obama.  On 21 December 2010, al-Maliki's government was unanimously approved by the Iraqi parliament more than 9 months after the 2010 parliamentary election.

You are almost right about the USA now being weakened and emasculated.   That points to by the far the largest failing of GWB's misguided Christian crusade in Iraq, and that is trashing detente as a foreign policy tool.    At the time of the invasion in 2003, Iraq had a population of less than 25 million and was suffering after 12 years of agressive sanctions following on from the first Gulf War.   The world's mightiest military power invaded, had a brief moment of "Mission Accomplished" and then failed to dominate a small emasculated nation.   

All this has done is proven to the world that when USA says "Behave yourself, or ELSE" that it means nothing.   If they were unable to dominate Iraq, what are they ever going to achieve against Iran with the largest ready army on the planet, and well supplied with Russian armaments bought with plentiful oil?   What a Laugh!  No Wonder Kim Jong Un takes notice only of China!

"Why does the role of 'peacemaker' always have to be filled by the US, the UK and other Western powers?"

Peacemakers don't invent fake intelligence on WMD to be used a reason to invade another country."Any chance Russia and China could act as global citizens "

They already did that with their condemnation of the Invasion of Iraq by GWB and his band of sycophants in 2003.

"If you want to project global power and relevance, act in a relevant manner."

You mean like making up stories about Saddam and his WMD to be used as an excuse to annex the Rivers of Babylon?"Can you defeat stupidity with stupidity? You can never defeat their religious ideology."

Well, I very much doubt it is possible to defeat ignorance with stupidity!   Ignorance is a choice while stupidity is a permanent condition.It still makes no sense.   

For a start $200k is less than half of the median house price.

Secondly, 10 years of quarantine is nowhere near the horizon for a 70yo these days

Thirdly, "not touched' won't help in the case of an emergency in the family.

It all points to people keeping on doing what my family is doing, which is keeping a +90yo widowed vision impaired mother in the family home we all grew up in.

"Does Jonathan Green think we should continually highlight the differences?"

Tony Abbott and the government certainly do!"People here conveniently forget Keating's 18% interest rates which saw thousands of families lose their homes."

But we haven't forgotten Howard's 22% Interest Rates which were subsidised down by the tax payer, something Keating never did.Incisive observations and concisely summarised.   

Well done!"I agree that radical Islam poses a threat to Australia. "

Radical ANYTHING poses a threat to EVERYBODY!   We should focus on the radicals rather than seeking to marginalise all who share an incidental trait with the radicals."The 'radicals' are in fact belivers of the fundamentals of Islam - just as their founder intended"

Which makes them no difference to radical believers in Christian fundamentalism (just as their founders intended) in the eyes of this here atheist."If you knew how offensive it was to genuine radicals like myself"

if you would have read this thread more carefully, then you would have directed this diatribe at the poster who initiated this discussion by referring to "radicals" and which I was paraphrasing and quoting."As I said before, there is no excuse for sloppy language. Many lives have been lost through"innocent" slips of the tongue."

And so, through the use of sloppy language, you seem to be implying that I have murderous intent or might cause a loss of human life through my quoting what others have written.   

Is it my turn to be offended now?Outrider.  That 31% are those that KNOW they have high blood pressure and stated so in the census.  There must be a significant proportion in addition who have yet to be diagnosed."Let's work with what we know (rather than believe)"

Rather, let's NOT work with what we are TOLD to believe by old men wearing dresses who claim to have a direct line to "God"..."Thank God I'm an atheist."

Me too!   Except I am a far more devout atheist than you are!   Also, my brand of atheism is far superior to yours!   If you disagree then we can either engage in a crusade to the death or a boozy lunch at a nice restaurant.  Your Call!"Dawkins then added that the really important question is how we leave the planet for future generations. He immediately contradicted his previous argument."

your logic is hollow to the point of being vacuous.     Just because you cannot understand Dawkins' perspective of the world around him does not mean Dawkins is wrong and you are right.

Also, your expectation that I "just make up reasons for being and act on them" is completely wrong an is in fact simply YOUR own personal myth..."None of us are advocating chopping off people's heads."

That's right.  NONE OF US are advocating chopping off people's heads.   If there IS one of "US" doing so, then you should report them to the authorities immediately!"Retrenched over a year ago I cannot get the dole."

In which case you are NOT officially unemployed and therefore not part of the statistics."In fact most local reporters troll out a litany of cherry-picked irrelevancy."

As do most respondents on this forum..."Compiling a list of random statistics with no context or commentary might impress some people, I guess, but it ain't writing."

If there is one thing in there that you didn't know before you read it, then think of it as "education" rather than "writing".."Oh, I don't know. It got me thinking."

Thinking?   We need more of that from more people!"Actually...we need less "thinking" from the likes of Green and more basic facts."

Oh Lordy!   Here come the Thought Police!Every criticism you apply to Green's thinking applies equally to your own.   Also, you are the one who sounds vain - vain enough to denigrate the views of others simply because they do not align with your own.It's been interesting to watch...

The 2014 ideological blueprint disguised as a budget was launched in the first term because Abbott &amp; Co obviously thought, or had been told by Peta, that there would be a backlash but the voters would be mostly over it by the time the next election comes around.   Instead, the resentment is lingering, if not growing, and the gaffes by Hockey, Abetz, etc are fanning the flames.

What now?   DD is out of the question.   Will Abbott step back from the budget of broken promises?   Will Bill Shorten get a Bob Hawke makeover and sort out the mes that is the ALP?   Will Clive be PM after the next election?

It's better than Big Bother and Master Chief all rolled into one.  One thing for sure, it ain't "Australia's Got Talent"!That's pure unadulterated rubbish!

All it takes for multiculturalism to work is for people to be free to live freely and celebrate their culture, and for those with differing views and mores to be tolerant.  That's all!

It only ceases to work when one group start being intolerant or start trying to dictate how other people should live.   

Your assertion that some similarity is required to make it work was proven wrong with the Rwandan genocide.   

Examples of intolerance or enforced assimilation leading to conflict are too numerous to list, but you can start with the Holocaust, Cambodia, Bosnia, Shiite vs Sunni in Iraq, and don't forget Gaza!"but why are there so many terrorist organisations wishing to attack our institutions."

Are there?  How many?   Have you got a list I can look at?"For starters there is Benbrika and others who are in gaol."

Know about that.  

Keep going, please.   You asked "why are there so many terrorist organisations wishing to attack our institutions" and Benbrika is one criminal crackpot in jail.   One is not many.   Keep going, please.You are seeking to divert the argument with silly analogies.   Being tolerant of other people's culture has nothing whatsoever to do with "unwanted advances of a personal nature. "

You ask "How much are you willing to capitulate to somebody else's wants, whims and ideas in your own home? " when all you are really saying is that YOU want to enforce YOUR unwanted personal preference (advances) on others who do not want to live the same way you do.

You are correct when you state "Some cultures and people just aren't tolerant" and thanks for giving us a real life example."Must have touched a nerve there Jonesy, sorry to burst your idealistic bubble"

You should brush up on your logic and reasoning skills, Mike (the only one).   

We started discussing multiculturalism and now you are on to "realities like the Bali bombing or 9/11".   Really?   What's the connection here?   Are you saying that muslims who want to live in Australia and practice their faith and live their lives are somehow connected to those terrorist events?    Really?

You probably aren't diverting the argument.   You are just reinforcing the image of yourself that you are projecting through your posts.   You and I know what that image is, but if I write it down the moderators won't let it through.

There is no logic in "Multiculturalism doesn't work here" leading to " we need to deal with the realities like the Bali bombing or 9/11 ".   There is no logic.   There is only [insert adjective here]From the the middle of the road there are baddies on the left and goodies on the right.   Such a simple and easily understood world around us, isn't it?"A quarter of Australians born overseas - all the more reason to stop mass immigration before it is too late."

Too late for what?

In 1972, three quarters of all denizens of Australia (I had better not call them "Australians" in case it's too late) were either born overseas or were born of parents who were born overseas.   In schoolyards across the nation the kids of Italian extraction were labelled wogs and dagoes and those of German extraction were labelled Nazis by the kids who were of British extraction.

I'd say it's probably already too late for whatever you think it might be too late for..."That is all good on the wet, muddy playing field when you wedge your head between your team mates' bums. "

Why, when you used the work "wedge" in that context,  was I suddenly reminded of John Hopoate?"Israel occupies the territory because it was confiscated from hostile parties during a war."

They started out with confiscated territory and keep on keeping on.   The reason the USA failed in Iraq is because every Arab in the region believed that the US invasion was simply the first step in a process of further confiscation.     

And now there is ISIL to contend with.

Oh well."Bush thought you could substitute Jesus for Saddam"

No!   Bush believed he was paving the way for Jesus' second coming!

"By the Rivers of Babylon
Yea we sat down
O yea we wepth
When we remembered Zion"

The locals were never going to let that happen!

"this problem will all be taken care of once Australia gets those jets they are buying from the USA."

Would you like nukes with that?

Have a Nice Day now...Sounds like a good plan!    In fact let's extend Danby's proposed action to improve human rights to all nations that are guilty of such behaviour!

* The USA for operating a black hole prison in Camp XRay and holding people prisoner for years without charge

*  Israel for collective punishment of civilians in Gaza

*  China for reasons outlined by Clive Palmer this week

*  Saudi Arabia for denying it's citizens basic freedoms and for cruel and unusual punishments for petty crimes

*  Myanmar

*  And Australia for it's treatment of refugees.

Back in the days of South African apartheid trade with such nations was justified on the premise that it would draw those countries "into the fold" and improve the lives of those being oppressed.  Why can't that logic be used in the case of the DPRK?"So we ignore those that are the worst because others are bad too ?"

Good point!   We need a system for ranking these recalcitrant nations from "bad" to "worst".   To that end I suggest we ask those on the receiving end how bad they think it is.  We could ask:

1.   A Palestinian in Gaza

2.   A prisoner in his tenth year in Gitmo

3.   A North Korean in a Labour Camp

What do you think their answer would be to who is receiving the "worst" treatment???"So do we just do nothing about anything ?"

We do something about everything.    Tolerating abuses by our "friends" while feigning outrage at the abuses of our enemies makes us hypocrites and the supporters of abusers!"Read what Kirby said."

While you are at it, read what Kirby has to say about Israel and Guantanamo...Xenophobes hiding behind a fake concern and compassion for deaths at sea it something I find extremely tedious..."Tony Jones was asking for a comment and was stirring it up trying to goad Clive into making a rash statement. "

If Palmer had any political nous he would have simply responded with the John Howard response and said it was before the courts and therefore he would not comment on it....without the unnecessary attack on the Chinese would have been smarter..."Never thought Id say this but Clive Palmer has been absolutely brilliant the way he has reigned in this this out-of-control rabble that is the LNP."

The question is where is the ALP hiding?   WHY are they hiding?Funny how both Palmer and LNP think the only way to balance a budget is to address spending and while completely ignoring the dysfunctional revenue basis of the Australian tax system.

We are all having to pay levies and do it tough while the banks and miners are all reporting record profits in the billions!I think the 90% referred to means the House of Reps where the LNP have the numbers.   That 90% will become the 10% after it gets presented to the Senate.   PUP has the balance of Power and the ALP are not going to support the LNP's ideological blueprint for turning Australia into a carbon copy of the USA."By condemning Palmer, the LNP is effectively sidelining him"

Hardly that!  The LNP might be preaching to the converted which doesn't change the base line numbers, especially with the way people are turning away form the LNP in response to their budget of broken promises.

"Without influence, PUP will become superfluous."

Seems to me that "Balance of Power in the Senate" = "Influence".   Therefore, any superfluousness is at least two elections away!"in stark contrast to Truss who had to defend the indefensible."

Truss never answered the direct question in relation to what an unemployed person was supposed to do once their benefits were cut off for 6 months.   He knew that anything he said on that question would land him in the same boat as Hockey on the matter of poor people not driving..."Higher fuel prices make public transport more economically viable. It provides incentive for houses and businesses to be built in places convenient to non-car culture. It gets more people using bicycles / scooters, giving incentive to construct infrastructure for these types of vehicles. "

The exact same logic and argument applies to the carbon tax and renewable energy.   Applying financial incentives and disincentives has long been proven to be the most effective way to modify human behaviour."That wasn't what Hockey said at all. He was in fact quoting ABS statistics that indicates less car use among people who had low income."

Would that be because people with low income cannot AFFORD to use more petrol?   

And therefore, won't increasing the fuel excise only mean that those who can least afford to buy petrol will only be able to afford to buy even less?    In other words, it hits those who can least afford it the hardest!"Here is a tip. If you don't want stupid, don't vote for it."

I always knew it was stupid.  I didn't want stupid.  I didn't vote for it.

Have you got another tip for me, please?"And cost is not an issue for people, which is why every aspect of motoring is taxed so much."

Fuel aside, owning and operating a personal car in Australia is relatively cheap.   Cheaper than public transport in many cases, which makes it the exact opposite of Europe."Why not a little look at what out alternate government has to offer in these troubled times. Or is the ABC protecting them from critical scrutiny."

I haven't seen much of Bill Shorten in the Murdoch press either.     Maybe they are just keeping quiet while Tony, Joe, and Matthias just keep digging, digging, digging..."What Joe missed on page 2 economics 101 was the concept of discretionary and non-discretionary spending. Most of us need to drive to work to earn money before we buy our food. "

Or pay the rent or the mortgage!

This is what triggered the GFC!   All those sub prime mortgagees in the USA fully exposed to a fourfold increase in the price of oil after the invasion of Iraq.

Then comes economics 201..  people who have to get to work to pay the mortgage default on the mortgage resulting in a GFC.  The GFC results in those people losing their jobs.  D'Oh!  Recessions make recessions worse!

Economics 301 is something to do with the worlds largest economy printing money like zillions of band aids.   They feel better as a result but the festering sores are still there....  festering..."Surely poor people should consider, not buying and maintaining a car, just as I did."

Yeah..  poor people cannot afford to live near CBD and services so they should just stay home, collect the dole, and live off soft drink and pizza delivered to the door of their squat!"I'm 83, I can't walk to the nearest bus stop but I can walk to the garage of my house and drive myself to the dentist, the GP, the eye specialist, the hearing aid people, "

The really really great news is that you won't notice the increase in the fuel excise compared to extra $7 you re going to need to see a health professional!"I meant economic freedom in the sense that we plebs get to pass judgement each election on the guvvament's tax-and-spend decisions."

We just tried that...  Apparently we voted for no changes to pensions, no changes to MediCare, no changes to education, and no new taxes or levies.   What did we get?"Our institutions are Greens/left stacked to the rafters"

It's called self selection.   It's because the people of the other persuasion all work for super funds and the banks!"So, no Left to speak of for over 30 years custard."

Absolutely correct!   What passes for "the left" these days is actually to the right of centre but they can still labelled as lefties because they are still to the left of an increasingly extreme right."I mean, Doug Cameron is the one remaining left wing dinosaur in the ALP - by post modernism he is communist which might be fair enough but what does that then make Stalin?"

Perhaps more importantly, what would that then make Jesus Christ?   And if JC showed up in a boat having fled Roman persecution, would they tow him back to Indonesia?"If you want that then we should replace elected politicians with selecting representatives via a random selection system much like jury selection"

I'm in!   But only if you double the remuneration on offer.   No sane person would be a politician for the money in this country."That is a great idea."

At least until some religious hard liner ends up on the jury, hey?"I am very reticent to give these kind of powers to an "independent authority" - perhaps mostly because they have a habit of becoming not so independent. "

as compared to the political parties, you mean?1.  States drop all stamp duties ans payroll taxes

2.  Dump the GST and replace it with a sales tax on goods only at the point of sale.  Essentials attract zero, luxuries attract higher amount.

3.  Export tax on all resources linked to commodity prices

4.  Drop the private health insurance rebate and fund Medicare entirely through a levy

5.  Tax all forms of pollution

6.  All revenues distributed to the states and the fed according to spend (Health, Education, etc)

7.  Dump the baby bonus and middle class welfare

8.  Replace the first home buyers grant with a tax break on interest payments for first home only

9.  Stop wasting swathes of money paying Serco to detain the most miserable and desperate people 

10. Clean up the superannuation rorts, particularly the rip off fees."Yet I'm reminded of the Henry Tax review, a document that took almost 2 years to produce and was wrecked by Kevin Rudd &amp; Wayne Swan."

The element that would have made a major structural contribution to the tax system being the MRRT.   That was wrecked by big miners and Tony Abbott.  It's a fact!"When it collected near zero under the magnificent Swan - then Tony intervened."

http://www.abc.net.au/news/2014-04-01/mathias-cormann-mining-tax-claim-exaggerated/5341306

"In this financial year the tax is projected to raise no money. Next year it is projected to bring in $450 million. In 2015-16 this rises to $1.2 billion, and in 2016-17 to $1.8 billion. The cumulative total over the four years of the forward estimates - the standard period used in federal budgets - is $3.4 billion.""that article was written pre price drop."

Yep!   We missed the boat on that one!   It should have been in place in 1998.   Instead we now get to pay a levy and $7 to visit a GP...   Never Mind!"It is truly amazing how failed liberal politicians always reveal themselves as socialists in later life."

Deep down, everybody is a socialist!   It's just that people who are more selfish restrict their socialist generosity to themselves and their immediate family.  Think about it.   If free university education is socialism and the offspring of wealthy people get a free university education because the family trust pays for it, what's the difference?"If only, all of the above had never occurred would Australia still have the problems we have today?"

We would have far worse problems because Howard and Costello would not have had the smarts or the ticker to deal with the GFC when it hit in 2008."This is impossible because they would be selected by politicians."

Or, like Dr Martin Parkinson, they would be "de-selected"...So you want to tax assets but give concessions on savings?   So cash in the bank is not an "asset" but a family home mortgaged to something in excess of 50% is an asset that should be taxed?"There should be stronger action by the authorities to ensure evasion does not happen."

Decrease the GST to 0% and it probably won't happen.   Conversely, increase the GST to 20% and watch what happens.

The problem with the GST is that it is completely inefficient for the wider economy which has to account for the same GST transaction multiple times for zero net revenue to the government.

The GST should be replaced by sales tax for goods only applied at the point of sale.  Easy and efficient, and luxury items should attract higher rates than essential items."the LNP are doing their best to get the budget under control by whichever means they can"

Rubbish!   They abolished a number of revenue raising avenues and refuse to focus on the revenue side of balancing the budget other than a 3% tax on high wage earners and $7 GP tax on the needy.

The LNP "budget" is nothing about "balance" - it is just an arrogant ideological blueprint to turn Australia into a neocon utopia!So the laws have probably been designed to stop the ABC from reporting on boat people claiming the Navy burnt their hands or people on Manus being murdered in a violent rampage.   Just label the whole lot a "special operation" and the media goes silent...If your point is valid, FG, then why do we need an Attorney General?

Just asking..."Remind me that if I ever get into trouble I don't want Brandis to defend me !! Most of his reply was risable rubbish !!! Any suburban solicitor would make a better Attorney-General than this bloke."

Think about how much money a good legal professional can earn and then think about what a politician gets paid.  That would explain why your average suburban solicitor didn't choose a career in politics.   It might also explain why George is where he is."Movie plot idea:
97% of the world's scientists contrive an environmental crisis, but are exposed by a courageous, altruistic band of billionaires and oil companies."

I have a better one, CBL...

How about big pharma collude with the entire medical profession, including the medical scientists, to develop and sell a vaccine for Rubella, Measles, and Pertussis knowing full well the vaccine causes autism in children.   They end up being exposed as scientific frauds by a few concerned parents with autistic children...

Oh.. wait.. already been done.

How about a movie about a girl possessed by a demon who is saved by a thoroughly scientific exorcism?"Apparently the woman from the Sydney Institute would rather take the 95% risk of dying."

Only because she isn't taking the risk on at the 95% mark because she won't live long enough!   She's leaving the 95% gamble to your grandchildren!Your problem is the investigation shows that the 95% are absolutely right!"Like it or not direct action is all we have for the foreseeable future."

and we have it because Abbott &amp; Co believe that man made global warming is a scientific fact, right?   I mean, they wouldn't hand over billions of taxpayer dollars to their corporate mates on the basis of an alarmist leftie conspiracy, would they?Greig...

So what you are saying is that Abbott &amp; Co are in fact handing over billions of taxpayer dollars on the basis of an alarmist leftie conspiracy!   That is because the public have been taken in by the alarmist leftie conspiracy as shown in the polls?

The only other question I have is since when did Abbott &amp; Co take their economic guidance from the polls??  If that were the case the PPL and $7 GP levy would be off the agenda, right?"Shame if we disappear and leave the world to the amoebas."

That explains everything!   All the politicians must have amoebic immunity and get to hold on to the reins of power once the rest of us are gone!So why has the party you voted into office decided to spend billions of your dollars on a sham program aimed at reducing CO2 emissions?"I'm stumped - can someone explain in terms of physical science how rising greenhouse gas concentration can cause all extreme events to increase, even those falling into the category "etc"? "

The explanation is that the correlation is a stochastic one.  That is, as the climate system accumulates more energy as a result of the greenhouse effect, the likelihood and the severity of extreme weather events will increase accordingly.

The Science of CO2 as a greenhouse gas is beyond question.   So is the fact that CO2 was sequestered during the Jurassic and is now being returned to the atmosphere at an accelerating rate.   The climate during the pre-cambrian is where we are heading and you can check on the facts of that for yourself.

Speaking of facts, you haven't got ANY to support your hollow assertion that there are any which go against it.I'm sure you can direct us to a list of names in support of your baseless assertion..."Scenario 1: scientists wrong and deniers right. Risks entirely economic " misses the added advantage that increased energy efficiency along with lower cost renewable energy would help to safeguard the economy against the inevitable cost increases resulting from increasing demand and finite supply in the case of fossil fuels."Renewable energy is a no brainer."

As compared to the RET, you mean?"Israel did it, why can't we?"

Massive funding and aid from the USA, that's why."Your flogging a dead horse, we listened and you have been proved wrong"

Actually, neil, it's YOU who has been proven wrong.   Absolutely wrong!     Unless you live on an earth that is 6,000 years old and was created by a gnome at the bottom of your garden who will send his son to sort everything in one rapturous moment for eternity as soon as things get too difficult to live with."2007 that predicted massive firestorms "With the power of an atomic bomb"

Let's not forget Black Saturday, shall we?"In part it says Sweden has a bipartisan approach and an educated population"

Sweden is a mirror image in Australia.    Here we have two parties on the right of centre while in Sweden "bipartisan" refers to two parties which are both to the left of the ALP agreeing on policy.

All of which means Sweden must be a communist den of iniquity, we suppose..."Now whether this is climate variation or global warming I don't know. "

Think of real estate prices over the last 100 years..   There have been ups and downs, but the trend is firmly upward.    Likewise with global warming and droughts.  While there will be good years and unseasonable wet years, the worst will be worse than previously experienced, and the most recent worst will be superseded sooner than we would like."No Mungo, what he means is having a (long overdue) mature debate on tax reform - gedit?"

So you don't think the Henry Tax Review was good enough?  missedit?It would be more meaningful to seek an explanation as to why they can afford to hand out billions for corporations to fake carbon reductions but couldn't afford to support the auto industry which actually built real cars and provided tens of thousands of real jobs!"The funding is approved and delivered on the basis of proving quantified outcomes in greenhouse reduction, and future prospects for development of technology and processes."

So by that measure we could expect the DA funding to be available to build wind farms, right?"It would be a surprise if the allocation of funds was not tied pretty closely to a reduction in energy use or reduction in emissions (for those who actually do the emitting)."

It will be Manildra all over again!  The LNP will hand over billions of taxpayer's dollars and receive generous donations in return which will be used to run their next scare campaign prior to the election.Flawed Logic!

A properly implemented ETS will result in consumers choosing to buy their electricity from suppliers that are not having to charge extra to cover the cost of carbon emissions.   Very simple!" the left who tell us constantly that that the market is useless, evil and worse"

Who said that and when did they say it?

"WHat ever happened to all those solemn diatribes about how government is better than the market at running every little aspect of our lives?"

Who said that and when did they say it?"They're actually more expert in the mechanics of breath-wasting than they are about anything fiscal."

It's called "fiscal vapour"...   as in, "He has a bad case of the fiscal vapours"LJeez. And all the while they've syphoned off votes meant for Labor. "

Serves the ALP right.   And I mean "Right"!    The ALP cannot expect to maintain its voter numbers when it has turned itself into the left wing faction of the LNP!It's real, Jay.   Very Real.   You can deny it all you want but we are well on the way to returning the planet to the Carboniferous period because we are rapidly de-sequestrating all the carbon that was sequestered in the Jurassic.   Dead simple to understand and denial is simply denial of the cold hard facts."We need to understand the politics of climate change"

The politics of climate change is very simple.

1.  The neocon individualist right are ideologically opposed to any and all forms of collective action, including taxation.

2.  The only effective mitigating actions against increasing CO2 emissions are collective in nature, centered around pricing mechanisms (taxes!) to modify consumer behaviour.

3.  Because of the clash between 1 and 2, the necon  individualist right have nowhere to go except to deny the scientific fact of Anthropogenic Global Warming.   A simple case of ideology and politics overriding logic, reason, and science.

Very simple!  Show me a climate change denier and I can tell you who they vote for!

"Brand claims that the current system of party democracy is broken. It's a cartel upholding the political status quo, concentrating power and allowing inequality and alienation to grow."

That's probably the best description I've heard of the current state of what passes for politics and democracy.   Of course, that suits the the Libor / Laboral cartel perfectly, so any change won't come from the cartel itself, especially since the MSM continually fail to challenge the lies and double standards while the voters are ready to vote for three word slogans.

Therefore, Shaun Crowe's alternative of "Politics is slow, frustrating and we need to make it better" sounds more like shoring up the cartel rather than doing something about the shabby deal we are stuck with.   

I'm with Russell Brand!"However there must be something in for him, being the ultimate "what's in it for me?" type"

Having achieved his objectives he is now just trying to distance himself from the outcomes and any culpability.It's hardly hyperbole.

Look at the platform Abbott and Hockey took to the last election and look at what we got once they were in power!   It represents a subversion of democracy and Rupert was their main supporter!"I'm not sure whether we want an entire generation that has learned to rely on the teat of the taxpayer (to the extent that hasn't already happened)."

So 20% unemployed youth represents the "entire Generation", then?"Increasing youth unemployment flows directly from increasing regulations and compliance costs "

So it has nothing to do with the actual lack of jobs, then?reaver...  I have no regulatory barriers to hiring and firing employees other than Payroll tax which my overseas based competitors do not have to pay!"If you increase the cost of training apprentices, there will be less of them."

Apprentice award wages were an insult up until the changes brought in by Keating.   They still aren't much for first and second year apprentices.   

You can rattle on about it, but I can remember employers taking on apprentices to do tradesmen's work, paying rubbish wages while receiving government grants, and on the day they got their ticket and the employer had to pay full wages they were out the door and replaced with a fresh apprentice.

Instead, why not offer us your views on the big banks posting record profits while sending jobs offshore that could easily be done by Australians who would pay tax and contribute to the wider economy?Eric said ''There is no right to demand from your fellow Australians that just because you don't want to do a bread delivery or a taxi run or a stint as a farmhand that you should therefore be able to rely on your fellow Australian to subsidise you,'' he said.

On the other hand, if you are BHP, Twiggy, Gina, or Clive it's actually expected that the "follow" Australians subsidise you!" As with Rinehart''s $2 workers, non patriot leaners, abbott tells workers to be grateful to big business for allowing them to work."

It's all part of a larger plan like work for the dole, green army, IR reform...   The plan?   To re-invent serfdom!    The irony is that the free men had the right to vote for a return to serfdom, and they voted "YES".Freeman...

you have highlighted the big flaw in the dole bludger argument.   We are discussing less than 20% youth unemployment and of those a fraction are the indolent, the drug users, the criminals..  but somehow, the media dresses the story to make it seem as though the majority are all like that.

I agree.

Either the industry didn't know what was happening in which case they should have, or they knew and hoped nobody would find out.    They are responsible for failing to ensure that what was revealed by the media didn't happen, and there were consequences.

Under the circumstances, the cruelty needed to be stopped and given that prior assurances had failed to deliver results, a ban on exports seemed like a reasonable course of action at the time.   The courts will now decide if it was reasonable or not.   I don't supposes there are too many vegan judges, are there?"We invaded Iraq to get rid of al Qaeda,"

Not So!

Saddam and  al Qaeda were sworn enemies and they did not have a presence in Iraq during Saddam's time.

We were told the invasion was to rid Saddam of his WMD, which were long gone and all the experts said they were long gone!   Now JWH says he is "embarrassed" about the WMD error.

GWB, JWH, and Blair were also told by the experts that the most likely outcome of the invasion would be a serious destabilisation of the entire region..  Hello?I actually work and run a business and I disagree with everything you have said!   I could dissect it point by point for you but those posts never seem to get past the moderators."Just how thick does Abbott think we are?"

I couldn't speak for Abbott on that question, but there was a compulsory nationwide poll taken in September 2013 which more or less directly provides the answer!It is incorrect to assume that the relationship between increasing the GST and the resultant increase in government revenues is proportional and linear.   That is because the GST is a regressive tax and increasing it from 10% to 15% means people will spend less on goods and services as a result of the price hike.   

It will be another kick in the guts for small businesses as their incomes will remain the same but they will hand over more GST from that income." It is a lazy and easy way of raising revenue."

It is only easy and lazy for the government because raising and accounting for the GST falls to the business community.     The GST is a drag on business and the wider economy and is the most inefficient way to raise tax revenues imaginable.Efficiency is defined as maximum output for minimum effort.  That defines the GST as grossly inefficient.   GST on a single purchase gets accounted for multiple times over by several different private companies and the net revenue raised at the end of the chain for the ATO is ZERO!!  Mulitply that by tens of millions of transactions and we have a nation of large and small businesses digging the same hole and filling it in again!

That is not "efficient"!Here's a thought...

The GST was introduced in 2000.

The only people who pay GST are the final domestic consumers, since all businesses don't have to pay it.

Australia's private domestic debt has surged to record levels between 2000 and 2012 on the back of the mining boom.   That debt incurred GST with every private purchase!

Therefore, the revenue "earned" from GST is actually borrowed money and is still being paid off by individuals as part of the home equity loans used to buy a bigger plasma TV every two years...

Debt and Deficit, indeed!Just another opinion dressed up as some kind of fact when it remains an ideological point of view supported by filtered data...The only way to fix the GST is to abolish it altogether!

The astoundingly inefficient GST should be replaced with a point of sale tax on non-essential goods and services that is charged one time by the vendor and remitted to the ATO."You can tax caviar and BMWs until no-one ever buys them, but it won't build a single hospital."

They are taxing caviar and BMWs now and they are building hospitals with the revenues.  It's called the GST!
"The big question is does Australia's tax system, including the GST, need reforming ?"

The Henry Tax Review answered that question in the affirmative and recommended a Mining Tax!I issued the same challenge here ages ago in relation to Abbott's ideological agenda and Hockey's budget.  

Where will the jobs come from?

How will the welfare bill decrease with public servants and manufacturing workers being laid off in in the tens of thousands?

How can small business expect to thrive with the resultant fall in wages, GDP, and discretionary spending?

There was not a single response to the challenge!   Not one!

All well and good to issue your challenge, Waterloo, but while current government's ideology might suit you perfectly, you can't hide behind the cold hard reality of what comes next!   At that point, the ALP won't need to make an alternative case - they will just need to be the alternative government!"never, ever a failure of ideology."

And have you noticed how ideology has made a virtue of being a selfish, ignorant bigot?   

I reached this conclusion after reading thousands of posts on this forum because apparently there is no virtue in caring about those who are less well off, nor in being educated and open minded!Points of order, jusme..

It's actually combinations of Hydrogen and Carbon that provide a source of fuel and energy and not just carbon on its own.

And hydrocarbons are not mentioned in the bible for exactly the same reason that kangaroos were not mentioned on Noah's Ark.   The ancient desert nomads who invented religion as we know it today had no knowledge of either."Taking money out of the economy is leaving in the pockets of earners who would better invest it than people who do not earn it and use it to garner favor."

Yeah..  right!  So the Mining Tax has been abolished and mining companies are cutting jobs across the country!   Does that sound like they are using the mining tax dollars left in their pockets and are investing in people to you?

You have it completely upside down as usual and think the recipients are more entitled to it than the people who own it."Keynesian theory doesn't work, and yet foolish people continue to follow it and wonder what goes wrong, never realising their underlying economical tools are flawed."

Really?   So the Quantitative Easing in the USA hasn't worked, then?So you haven't read all the previous articles by Verrender and Kohler here alluding to the QE pushing up the DJIA?"Then how did the Coalition win the right to form government at the last election, given one of their key platforms was the abolition of the carbon tax?"

That's EASY!   The nation voted for Tony Abbott because he promised:

*  NO NEW TAXES

* No changes to Gonski

* No cuts to tertiary education

* No changes to Pensions

* No changes to Medicare...

etc etc.."It's an unaffordable pipe dream. If you don't belive me - go to kick starter and prove me wrong."

That's only true if fossil fuels are not finite.

"No-one has yet demonstrated large scale renewables is a viable option on a scale that will stop emissions and provide base load energy. "

Not true.   Geothermal has clearly demonstrated it is a proven means of large scale base load electricity supply with effectively zero emissions.

"I'd like to say more but this is the first time in about 2 months I've managed to get a comment up here, so I won't push my luck."

Nobody understands the moderators on The Drum.  However, your comments allow me to understand your political bias perfectly!
"Surely from time to time there is a poll result of yours that agrees with the Government? Just once maybe? Might make your polls a little more credible don't you think."

Good point!  Why don't you suggest a topic for a poll?   How about Abbott's pre election position on broken promises?"Lies, damned lies... and you can fill in the rest."

I spy LNP voter lying to himself to shore up a "zero tax it's all MINE" ideology!"Every thinking person would know that global warming (sorry, climate change) scaremongering is the con of the 21st century. "

Yeah...  RIGHT!

If it was restricted to the ranks of "Thinking" people, the poll results would have been 99% to 1% in favour of those who accept the scientific FACT of AGW!
