"...there are now more dumbed down idiots, voting for idiots, who are then appointing idiots to make idiotic decisions, than there are intelligent people to stop them."

I chuckled. To quote Homer Simpson, "its funny 'coz its true".I would content that those persecuted Christians are not being persecuted because they ARE, Christians, but rather because they are NOT Muslims (of the correct variety) . It is simply the result of base level tribalism that is present amongst many extremists groups. "Your group is different than my group - therefore I will persecute you - because you are not part of my group." If that group of Iraqi Christians were magically transported out and replaced with an equal number of Hindus, Mormons or even loony Scientologists, I'm reasonable sure they too would be persecuted.

Tribalism served our species well for millennia, when small populations of our ancestors struggled to avoid extinction. However, in today's global society, it is in my opinion, humanity's greatest threat.

The world should strive to eliminate persecution of any group of people by another group of people. This is equally true if the groups in question are classified according to national, racial, cultural, political or religious grounds.
Your comment doesn't address anything Christine Milne has said. In addition, your comments suggest that you are a little paranoid. A good Aluminium foil hat is the remedy you need.I see what you did there.The sad reality is that we get the government we deserve.

I wonder if you are licensed to offer financial advice.I think you are misrepresenting the "left" side of politics. Simplistic (and inaccurate) stereotyping of you opponents is not conducive to mature discussion.

Also, it is "you're"."... the industry rewards itself regardless of performance. It pays itself a percentage of funds under management."

It is true that the large majority of financial planners do this for the simple reason that it means they get paid more. However, there are a small but growing group of financial planners that charge a flat, fully transparent fee. If you are paying a percent based fee, and you have significant amounts invested, chances are you are paying far more in fees than you need to, and you probably aren't even aware of it, as those percent based fees are usually hidden.

The financial services industry in which I work is one of probably only a few industries where the amount you pay for an identical service can vary massively. It's like going to the shops to buy a 2 litre bottle of milk - one shop sells it for $2.00 and the shop across the road sells it for $11.00. What blows my mind is that people still are happy to buy their milk for $11.00. As an industry insider, I can assure you that the $11.00 milk is no better than the $2.00 milk, and in some cases is even inferior.Some questions ...

Why are families earning well over $100,000 per year still in receipt of welfare? Why can retirees who own a 5 million dollar house still receive full age pension? Why can business owners split their income with their non-working partner through a family trust for the sole reason of reducing their tax? Why (as the government believes) should a wealthy woman receive more tax payer dollars to have her child than a poor or unemployed woman?

Why does the government's definition of "sharing the burden" involve disproportionately hurting the poorest in society while having far less impact on the wealthy?DFAT's response seems to me to be mostly to be a generic statement about the risks of ordinary citizens travelling to a warzone, rather than a specific response Stephen McDonell's quite serious allegation that information was deliberately (and apparently unnecessarily) withheld from journalists, potentially putting their safety at risk."Turing Test" - that made me giggle - but to be fair, it is twisted ideology, not a lack of intelligence that is the problem here.Unhappy little dubunker - Oh my goodness - this article about Mr Hockey's recent performance and has nothing at all to do with climate change - so why mention it. You are well know on this forum for your science-denial - but seriously, why don't you try to keep your anti-scientific dribble to articles that are actually about the issue of climate change.Mr Abbott and Mr Hockey just do not seem to get it - the budget disproportionately hurts people on lower incomes. Losing $500 a year to someone on Mr Hockey's wage is unnoticeable - he earns that much money before morning tea each day. But to a person on a disability pension or even a person on minimum wage trying to support their partner and children, it is very noticeable. It is the disproportionate burden placed on society's poorest and most vulnerable that makes this budget manifestly unfair.
"Like all the dogmatic, fundamentalist attheists (sic) ..."

I have recently watched two debates between a Christian and an atheist/agnostic. One of these received some publicity in Australia - the debate between creationist Ken Ham and the Bil Nye, "The Science Guy". In both of these debates the questions was asked of both debaters - "What would change your mind?". In both debates, the Christian said "nothing" and the atheist/agnostic said "evidence". So which group is most honestly described as "dogmatic"?"Atheists are no more enlightened than anyone else."

Well, actually they are - because they are less deluded than everyone else.Algeron, simply dismissing two thirds of your divinely inspired, inerrant scripture isn't going to cut it. Especially when all the good tithing verses are in the Old Testament. But if you want to focus on the New Testament, perhaps you can explain why the Christian New Testament specifically endorses slavery. Consider for example, Ephesians 6:5, Colossians 4:1 and 1 Timothy 6:1. And please, for the love of god(s), don't try the old "but 2,000 years ago, slavery was much nicer" line.Algeron - your earlier comments imply that you de-emphasise the Old Testament (two thirds of the bible) and focus on the New Testament. Also, I suggest that you Google "Circular argument", as you don't really seem to know what one is.

But perhaps most tellingly,  I notice that you didn't answer my question - please explain why the Christian New Testament specifically endorses slavery. Is slavery morally right or is it morally wrong - it's a very simple question.Agreed. How many Sunday pew-warmers have any idea how the anthology we call our "Bible" today was produced and on what basis it was decided which books were included or excluded. I wonder how many know that each of the different branches of Christendom have their own inspired infallible canon - that just happens to be different to everyone else's inspired, infallible canons. What about the fact that a disturbingly large portion of the new testament is now known to be Pseudepigrapha - in other words, they are forgeries. 

And I haven't even began to mention the abhorrent practices either sanctioned or commanded by the alleged "ultimate author" of the Bible.Regarding the forgeries - I was simply explaining what the mainstream academic opinion is on this topic. I suggest you read Bart Ehrman's "Forged" if you want a full explanation of why the academic community are convinced that so many of the books are complete forgeries, and some of those that aren't forgeries still contain insertions by later scribes.

Regarding the abhorrent practices and your suggestion that "context" is somehow important. Please explain to me in what context slavery, genocide, child kidnapping and child rape are acceptable?
Question - should bronze age (and admittedly some iron age) mythologies be taught as if they are factually correct, in our public, secular school systems? I would argue "no!". But if the answer is "yes", then on what basis is it decided that only ancient Jewish mythologies be taught (as fact) rather than for example, Aboriginal Dreamtime mythology or Chinese mythology etc."If you claim that the Bible is just myth and fairytales - could you provide evidence for it?"

Are you serious? The bible contains many hundreds of undisputed scientific, historical and geographical errors. There are whole books and website which list and explain them.

"There is evidence ... that Jesus lived, died, and was resurrected but to claim that it is a myth means you must have evidence that it never happened."

Firstly, the evidence that Jesus actually lived is very flimsy to say the least and there is no credible evidence at all that any person on the planet has ever come back to life after being dead for three days. Also, you need to familiarise yourself with the concept of the burden of proof. It is the person making the claim who has the burden of proof, not the person who remains unconvinced as to the accuracy of the claim.I think if you actually read the posts on this page before commenting, you would find a significant number of reasons why scripture classes shouldn't take place in secular public schools. This is different from comparative religion classes - which most reasonable people wouldn't have a problem with."... and secretly wanting the Greens to hold balance of power ..."

If it's a secret, then how do you know about it? And to change the change the subject only slightly, Wierd Al Yankovic has a new song out about Aluminium foil which describes the usefulness of head wear constructed from it.My vote is for pragmatism. Once we have something in place, then the idealists can argue that changes are needed. If idealists hold out until the perfect policy is put forward, then nothing will happen. Remember, we have a disturbingly large proportion of our Federal Government who simply deny the scientific consensus regarding anthropogenic climate change. Therefore, in my view, anything is better than nothing.It is simply because a large proportion of the current government, including the PM do not accept the science."Always the 'science' as an appeal to authority"

Unlike religion and politics etc, science NEVER appeals to authority. It does however respect the opinions of recognised experts which is a very different thing.FACT: Australia's emissions have declined since the establishment of the Carbon tax. In other words, the policy was working. Why is that so hard for righties to digest?EVERY major scientific organisation in the world accepts the scientific consensus. Within the peer-reviewed scientific literature, there is NO DEBATE about the reality of anthropogenic climate change.Surely I do NOT jest. There is NO scientific debate about the reality of anthropogenic climate change. There is debate about the strengths and weaknesses of the various predictive models and what the various predictions may mean to real people living in 2014 and the future. In all areas of science, there should be legitimate, healthy (and sometimes robust) debate about the details of the issue, especially when predictive models are used. This is a good thing.

But this legitimate scientific discussion within the scientific community regarding such details in no way casts doubt on the agreed view that the planet is warming and human activity has played and continues to play a significant role in that warming. It is just the same as legitimate scientific debate regarding the mechanisms of evolution in no way casts doubt on the fact that evolution happened."There are many reputable scientific bodies that deny AGW"

Then you should have no difficulty naming ONE."stop repeating that ridiculously fictional claim about "every" major scientific organisation"

Then back up your claim by naming a SINGLE major scientific organisation that disputes the scientific consensus.

Simply ASSERTING that the "consensus claim has been refuted, debunked, etc..." does not make it so. You need to actually DEMONSTRATE your claim. You could do this by quoting from several peer-reviewed scientific papers that clearly dispute the scientific consensus. Until you can do this, I will listen to the scientists, not the internet keyboard warriors.AJC - if you honestly believed you had scientific arguments that could withstand the peer-review process, then PUBLISH your findings in a peer-reviewed scientific journal. Quoting stuff (that nobody is going to bother to check) on an internet forum achieves nothing. Scientific debates happen in one place - the peer-reviewed scientific literature.

I'm not interested in papers that (in your opinion) contradict "AGW alarmism" (whatever that means), as "alarmism" is not a scientific concept. I am only interested in the science, not in anyone's opinion of which particular opinions are supported or not by a particular scientific paper. I support what the peer-reviewed science says, and what it says is clear and not in dispute.

I did spend (waste?) some time checking some of the authors that one poster listed on a previous post and what I found was interesting. Not one of the authors I checked actually disputed anthropogenic global warming! NOT ONE! I thought that was extremely ironic, as the list was posted by someone who was arguing against the scientific consensus. The listed authors' papers (that I checked) argued that the amount of global warming will be on the lower end of the range of predictions. It was also quite interesting that some of the papers had been rejected by the major climate science journals (for reasons that are publicly available), but  then were published by obscure journals who did not have appropriately qualified reviewers. In effect, some of the papers I investigated actually by-passed the peer-review process.

Within mainstream climate science, there is a range of scientific predictions regarding the amount of planetary warming to be expected and the consequences of this warming. There is scientific debate regarding the strengths and weaknesses of the various models, as there should be. The IPCC summarise what they believe is the most likely scenario based on the available evidence.

So, I don't ignore the papers that you claim, but I would dispute the picture that you assert they portray. As I said, I did not find one paper that denied the reality of anthropogenic global warming."Therefore, the dishonesty of alarmists trying to pretend that human emissions of CO2 are greater is blatant."

It is actually the mainstream scientific opinion. If you honestly believed you have an argument that could withstand the peer-review process, then why not submit your views to a scientific journal. It is so easy to make your assertions here on this forum, not so easy when you submit the to the scrutiny of the scientific community."It is the claim of human involvement in altering the form or timing of climate change that is a fraud."

Says you. The scientists say the exact opposite."... they claim to be 'totally about the science' while actually knowing little about it"

To be fair, this criticism more accurately describes the side that denies the mainstream scientific consensus rather than the side that accepts it.I have not committed the Tu Quoque logical fallacy as you imply. In order to commit that fallacy, I would need to dismiss your argument simply because I thought your actions were inconsistent with your position. Clearly that is not what I've done. Can I suggest that you take the time to learn about what you are writing about before you write it - it lowers the chance that you will make yourself look silly.

The scientific consensus is the one in which in the opinions of the overwhelming majority of climate scientists (as measured in the peer-reviewed scientific literature), the planet is warming up and human activity is contributing significantly to that warming. It is the view of every major scientific organisation in the world. It is the view taught in science courses from primary school to university. It is the view that is ONLY argued against in denialist blogs or by right wing shock jocks. In the peer-reviewed scientific literature, there IS NO DEBATE about the fact of anthropogenic climate change.We could go around and around in circles. You say I committed he Tu Quoque fallacy and I say I didn't for the reasons I gave. Now you say "did!" and I say "didn't" and you say .... etc

Moving on ... In your reality, I apparently said something "hilariously silly". In actual reality, I simply communicated what the scientific consensus actually is. I understand that in your reality, the scientific consensus isn't actually a scientific consensus - but I can only deal with reality as I perceive it. I have had interactions with young earth creationists who behave in a very similar fashion. They make statements like, "some scientists suggest ...: when referring to the mainstream scientific consensus. In creation land, evolution is a "theory in crisis" that is in serious dispute with large sections of the scientific community. this is simply false, just like the deniers claim that the scientific consensus for anthropogenic climate change is somehow in dispute.

Since 2007, when the American Association of Petroleum Geologists updated their official position on anthropogenic climate change, there is now NO MAJOR scientific organisation in the world that officially disputes the scientific consensus. You challenge me to "name them" which I will do - but I make you this challenge - name a SINGLE major scientific organisation in the world that disputes the scientific consensus that the planet is warming and that human actuvity has contributes significantly to that warming.

American Association for the Advancement of Science
Federation of Australian Scientific and Technological Societies
United States National Research Council
Royal Society of New Zealand
Royal Society (of the UK)
African Academy of Sciences
European Academy of Sciences and Arts
European Science Foundation
InterAcademy Council
International Council of Academies of Engineering and Technological Sciences
American Chemical Society
American Institute of Physics
American Physical Society
Australian Institute of Physics
European Physical Society
American Geophysical Union
American Society of Agronomy
Soil Science Society of America
European Federation of Geologists
European Geosciences Union
Geological Society of America
Geological Society of London
International Union of Geodesy and Geophysics
American Meteorological Society
Australian Meteorological and Oceanographic Society
Canadian Foundation for Climate and Atmospheric Sciences
Canadian Meteorological and Oceanographic Society
Royal Meteorological Society
World Meteorological Organization
American Quaternary Association
International Union for Quaternary Research
American Astronomical Society



Clownfish,

I'm starting to suspect that you live in an alternative reality where up is down and black is white. I produced a list of 30 plus major scientific organisations that have made public statements in support of the scientific consensus when you asked someone to "name them". And now this list is not good enough. How many do you need? 40? 50?. I don't dispute there may be individuals within those organisations that personally disagreed with the statement. But this is irrelevant, a consensus does not have to be unanimous. I know that there are young earth creationists who also belong to some of these organisations. Using your logic, the earth must be only 6,000 years old.

I asked you to name a SINGLE major scientific organisation in the world that DISPUTES the scientific consensus that the planet is warming. In your reality, you think you've done it by naming the Geological Society of Australia. But in actual reality, you've named an organisation that has made NO OFFICIAL STATEMENT on climate change, which is very different to my request. It is very hard to dispute a position by making no statement regarding it. Obviously I know that the reason this organisation has not produced such a statement is due to the fact that there is disagreement amongst their membership. Personally, I am more interested of the opinions of those in the peer reviewed scientific literature (who can accurately be called experts) than scientists in other fields or internet keyboard warriors (who cannot reasonably be called experts).

And even the consensus is too "bland" for you, whatever that means. A scientific consensus is a scientific consensus, and your opinion of it's "blandness" is hardly relevant.

"Swivel eyed disaster fantasies" ..."raining frogs and cats" ... now you're just rambling.To be fair, these scientists believed that the evidence was sufficiently convincing and the consequences sufficiently damaging that they should step out of the comfort zone of their normal scientific world and engage with society. Some were overly zealous and some made poor tactical decisions, but I for one can respect them for what they tried to achieve and their motivations.

However, when trying to determine the "truth" of the issue, it is in the peer-reviewed scientific journals that you are most likely to discover what the actual science says. Not in blogs and internet forums.102 comments at the time I post this and no denier has yet posted the - "but the planet hasn't warmed for 18 years" lie. I am pleasantly surprised."the near-20 year pause hasn't happened"

On this occasion, I'll let Dr Karl argue for me.

http://www.abc.net.au/science/articles/2013/10/08/3864474.htm

The "denier" is the one who denies the mainstream scientific consensus."It is worth remembering though that evolution is still just a theory..."

This statement is simply factually incorrect. Evolution is a scientific fact. The "Theory of Natural Selection" explains the fact of evolution.

In science, a "theory" is a scientific explanation of observed phenomena.Evolution denial and Climate Change denial on the same forum. 

And some people think our educational standards are dropping ...There are numerous posters who dismiss the scientific consensus. However, I suspect most of them do not dispute that the planet is warming, except for those who parrot the "No warming for 16 years lie".

Anyway, how is this one from janice.

"There's no point arguing, (with) anyone who doesn't know the world is not warming ..."EVAN ... and you might like to read this

http://www.abc.net.au/science/articles/2013/10/08/3864474.htm

You're welcome."The real problem is that the Labor &amp; Green supporters - don't really care about the future prosperity of Australia..."

Those pesky Labor and Green supports - ruining our economy by ... um ... all that pesky ... um ... supporting.

Perhaps if the government gives millionaires money to have babies, everything will be fixed. It's worth a shot.Really? ... turn this important issue into basic partisan finger pointing?I think John Lennon said it best ... 

Imagine.I'm pretty sure that you just nailed the non-sequitor award for today."... they clearly want all police, doctors and nurses sacked..."

While criticizing a person for misrepresenting another person's position, you shouldn't misrepresent their position.EXACTLY!

My interactions on this website over recent months with those who dispute the science of climate change has been a frustrating but "educational" experience. Accepted scientific facts simply stop being true. The motivations and/or competence of hundreds of thousands of scientists are questioned.
"Yes, the denial to face the reality that there is little to no evidence that mans' contribution alone has any significant effect with regard to global warming."

Says you - the scientific community says the exact opposite.Well, that's all very interesting and even if turns out to be true, it is totally irrelevant to what the actual science says. The peer-reviewed science on the issue is clear - the planet is warming and human activity is contributing significantly to that warming.Oh Lordy - your point is well taken and there is fault on both sides of the "debate". However, there at least needs to be an agreed starting point before any meaningful dialogue can happen. If people reject the basic science, claim the planet is not warming, claim that CO2 is not a GHG, imply or assert a massive global conspiracy within the scientific community etc etc etc, then what serious debate can happen?

I think there should be discussion of the relative merits and weaknesses of the climate models and their ability to predict climate change. I think there should be meaningful discussion on the benefits and disadvantages of various proposals to address climate change. But when those who accept the scientific consensus are labelled as "alarmists" or "warmists", often by people who misrepresent important facts, then the chances of meaningful dialogue seems unlikely.But I've heard deniers assert that all the scientists are wrong because they personally haven't noticed the sea levels rising down at the local surf beach. Also, it's a bit rich that someone who rejects the peer-reviewed science is lecturing someone on what science is.John Coochey - Your commend misrepresents Tim Flannery's statements and quite frankly, are quite petty. It's like saying "I know a doctor who smokes, therefore I'll listen to the medical profession about the causal link between smoking and cancer when that particular doctor stops smoking". The science is independent on the opinions or behaviour of any individual or group.JohnM - as usual, you like to state your views which are deliberately misleading and are in direct contradiction to all of the available evidence and are rejected by every major scientific organisation in the world. You may as well argue that the moon is made of cheese.JohnM - why do you continue to make assertions that are in direct conflict with the peer reviewed science. If you honestly believed that you know better than the climate scientists, then why aren't you focusing your efforts on arguing your case in the peer-reviewed literature rather than on a public internet forum.The Other John - You accuse the Greens of promoting conspiracy theories immediately after promoting a conspiracy theory yourself. That's some gold medal Irony right there.

You imply there is a conspiracy within the scientific community to hide facts, deliberately choose to not correct errors, engage in scare campaigns and who have lost their ability to apply rational thought. 

Do you honestly believe your views accurately reflect the scientific community? If so, do you have your reinforced,  tin-foil hat on?I agree in some (and perhaps many issues), the Greens are viewed as radical - however I don't necessarily consider that a bad thing. On the issue of human induced climate change, the Greens, like the Labor Party accept the science, but unlike the Labor Party, they understand the urgency for the need for change. Unfortunately, as long as we have loud scientifically illiterate politicians, shock jocks and other miscellaneous keyboard warriors denying there even is a problem, I suspect that little or no change will happen.They also don't accept the "science" that the earth is 6,000 years old. Nor do they favour the "Stork Theory" of human reproduction. Rather, they accept mainstream, accepted, peer-reviewed science. Not the special Andrew Bolt science.By your logic then, the following metals can not be considered "pollution" as they are needed for biological life.

calcium, phosphorus, potassium, sulfur, sodium, chlorine, magnesium, cobalt, copper, zinc, molybdenum, iodine, bromine, and selenium.

Scientists also suspect that arsenic is required by living things.

Trekka - I can't help but think that your statement is just a little unreasonable and emotional.Lies Lies Lies - JohnM, it has been pointed out repeatedly on this forum, often in response to your posts that this statement is false and deliberately misleading. Yet you still assert the lie over and over and over.

Dr Karl Kruszelnicki has responded to this dishonest assertion here http://www.abc.net.au/science/articles/2013/10/08/3864474.htm 

I realise that JohnM, you are immune to evidence, but I would encourage other readers who want an honest assessment of this claim to take the time to read Dr Karl's article.Joel - an elementary course on logic would be of significant benefit to you. Your use of non-sequitors is truly first rate.

The opinion of a non-scientist who was once a member of an environmental organisation does not override a scientific consensus reached by thousands of scientists. A quick google search on the internet will find actual scientists who believe the earth is 6,000 years old and medical doctors who believe that smoking is not harmful.It is true that there were some errors and overstatements in the film. However, none of them changes the fact that the within the peer-reviewed scientific literature, the issue is settled. There is (and will always be) discussion regarding various details, and similarly, there will be debate regarding the strengths and weaknesses of various climate models and their predictions. But as to the FACT of human induced climate change, there is no scientific debate.AJC - You are either being deliberately misleading or you are seriously misinformed. According to NASA, "Ninety-seven percent of climate scientists agree that climate-warming trends over the past century are very likely due to human activities". Should I believe NASA, or should I believe you? You talk about "distortions and propaganda", but your post is nothing but distortions and propaganda. Your post completely misrepresents the view of the scientific community on this issue. There are no national or major scientific institutions anywhere in the world that dispute the theory of anthropogenic climate change. Not one. There are, of course, politicians, bloggers and miscellaneous keyboard warriors who deny the scientific consensus, but within the peer reviewed scientific literature, there is no longer any debate of the fact of human induced climate change.

Scientists are some of the most intelligent, honest and independent thinking people on the planet. For your ridiculous assertions to be true, there needs to be a massive global conspiracy between hundreds of thousands of scientists to intentionally promote false views. This is beyond absurd and extremely insulting to the those scientists who pride themselves in their intellectual honesty. Have you ever met a scientist?

Next, you demonstrate complete ignorance on the way science works. Contrary to your unsubstantiated assertions, there are a great many things in which the science is well and truly settled. For example, the shape of our planet is approximately spherical, a water molecule consists of two hydrogen atoms and one oxygen atoms, humans and chimpanzees share a recent common ancestor. "Real scientists" do NOT questions these facts - they do NOT "question everything". To question things that are established beyond reasonable doubt is pointless and a waste of resources. On many thousands of issues, the science is absolutely and completely "settled" and anyone trying to suggest otherwise would be not be taken seriously in any adult conversation.

Obviously there are a great many issues in which there is still much to learn, and many scientific issues where there is still robust and ongoing debate. However, the fact of Human induced climate change is not one of those.Even - you've listed a couple of dozen names of people (I'm assuming scientists) who in your view deny climate change exists - or perhaps human activity plays no part in causing that change. Later today, I will google each of those names that you've cut 'n pasted to check what their qualifications actually are and what their stated views are. (Excuse my skepticism, but I've seen lists before of scientists who allegedly believe a thing, but upon closer scrutiny, it turns out that some of them have had their views misrepresented). But, for now, I'll assume you are right.

My reply is "Big Deal". A scientific consensus does not need to be (and almost never is) unanimous. I've heard medical doctors testify that smoking isn't bad for a person's health. A better example is creationism. There are hundreds of people with legitimate advanced scientific qualifications (including PhDs) who believe the earth is 6,000 years old.

The issue is not what a few dozen or even a few hundred dissenters, deniers or extremists think. It is the view that the relevant section of the scientific community has been compelled to form due to the weight of the evidence.

There is no debate in the scientific literature regarding the fact that the climate is changing and human activity has significantly contributed to it. That issue is settled. Any remaining debate is regarding the details or the modelling.

Describing scientists as "alarmists" and claiming they lack courage to "debate" deniers is utterly ridiculous. If the deniers had a valid scientific argument or evidence - they could publish their views in the peer-reviewed scientific literature (unless you are hypothesising a massive global conspiracy amongst scientists to eliminate opposing opinion)I was surprised to see Mr Gore standing beside Mr Palmer at yesterday's announcement. One good thing to come from Mr Palmer's announcement is the fact that it now seems very unlikely that the "direct action" policy will eventuate. Instead, it appears that we will retain a market based mechanism for encouraging the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions. I suspect that Malcolm Turnbull was particularly pleased at yesterday's announcement.AJC - your ridiculous conspiracy theories simply do not stand up to even the most basic scrutiny. Let me ask you two things:

1.) Please tell me one national or major scientific organisation anywhere in the world that has released a public statement that supports your denialist views and contradicts the scientific consensus.
2.) Please explain a plausible hypothesis regarding how the massive, global conspiracy between many thousands of scientists from many dozens (or hundreds) of countries has been achieved without anyone noticing.

I'd encourage you to consult some mainstream, peer-reviewed science on this issue rather than limiting your reading to denialist and conspiracy theory websites or Andrew Bolt pronouncements.AJC - What you call, "The AGW theory mob", regular people call "the scientific community". What you call "pet theory", regular people call "mainstream scientific consensus". What you describe as "keeps getting debunked by new evidence", scientists describe as "continues to gain support with new evidence".

You are a "denier" because you deny the accepted, mainstream view of the scientific community. The peer-review science is clear - human industrial and agricultural activity has affected out climate. 

I give you this challenge. If you honestly and seriously believe your anti-scientific conspiracy theories are true, and you genuinely believe that you know of some scientific evidence that refutes the views of the scientific community - then publish your brilliant opinions in a mainstream scientific journal and convince the scientific community that they are all wrong and you are right. If you are successful, then I'd bet money that you'd win two or three Nobel prizes as a result of your efforts.

Scientific debates happen in one place - in the scientific literature. If you want to participate in a scientific debate, then you must do it in the scientific literature. Simply typing your opinions on an internet forum, especially when they deny large chunks of accepted science will result in you not being taken seriously, and regularly labelled as "denier".The difference is that William Lane Craig attempts to justify genocide and the murder of children that possibly occurred in the past. Muslim extremists want to justify doing it today. Both rationalizations are evil in my opinion, but one is clearly much worse than the other.It seems clear to me that whether intentional or not, the current government's policies favour the rich and disadvantage the poor.People are people, and they will act how they act based on whatever motivates them. Some people do good, some people do evil, most people do both - it is only shades of grey - no black or white.

However, this comment by the author is intentionally misleading: "It is worth pointing out that atheist regimes of the 20th century killed more people than all the jihads and intifadas of the same century combined." It implies that atheist was the cause of the dictators evil - which is so absurd as to be laughable. (Also, Hitler was a Catholic). Atheism is simply the non-belief of any gods. Many studies have shown both between countries and between the individual US states, there is a strong inverse relationship between religiosity and societal health.

Lastly, I have a problem with the fact that a clearly intelligent man believes in an invisible ancient Palestinian tribal diety in the sky for which their is no evidence. But having said that, I believed in the same nvisible ancient Palestinian tribal diety in the sky for 30 odd years.

Indoctrination is a powerful thing - but education is even more powerful.Why would one group not in government want to "neutralise" another group not in government? I don't think you've really thought this through.Hmmmm ... A logically sound and factually correct proposal that would go a long way to solving the identified problem.

All you need to do now is to wait for a government that valued logic and facts.Marko, you assert "...the IPCC admits that there has been no statistically significant warming in the past 16 years..."

No it doesn't. You are either being deliberately misleading or you are simply ignorant. This dishonest claim can be found on science-denial internet blogs but has no basis in actual fact. To save typing, I'll simply refer readers to the ABC's own Dr Karl who wrote a rebuttal of the claim late last year. You can read it here: http://www.abc.net.au/science/articles/2013/10/08/3864474.htm.

Comparing the return of Superannuation funds with the Australian share market is a case of comparing apples with oranges. Most Australians have all of their superannuation in the default "Balanced" fund, which most likely contains 70% growth assets. The Australian share market is 100% growth assets. It is simply not a fair comparison.

I do not dispute that many super funds charge obscenely high fees - even some of the Industry funds are quite expensive. I personally have my money in a large, industry fund and I pay 0.22% fees on my approximately $200,000 balance. This is about 5 times cheaper than many other funds, and up to 10 times cheaper than some retail funds. 

Anyone can do the same - it's not rocket science. It simply takes a little time to educate yourself - which again is easy as almost every superannuation funds has considerable educational information available on their websites in the form of fact sheets and calculators. Considering the tens of thousands of dollars you could save in fees, in my view it is definitely worth the effort.


Hi David,

There is no way that mentioning specific products would be allowed on this forum. Let me just say that I work in the financial services industry, and one of my regular tasks is to investigate what products clients have and whether there are more appropriate ones out there. I regularly find older style retail products with fees over 2.0%. Occasionally, I find clients with old products costing them over 3.0% p.a. in fees. It is just obscene. Without fail, the clients have no idea what fees they are paying.

Many products have a fixed administration fee in addition to the percentage based management fee. Many have other fees as well, and of course there is commission often paid to some financial adviser you've never met.

There are specialist investments funds with very high (over two percent) management expense ratios. These include some geared funds or boutique China funds and the like.

To summarise, there are a lot of very expensive funds out there - mostly very old funds. Taking an interest in your retirement savings and makings some sensible decisions can make a very large difference to your retirement savings over your working life."...how population growth is the number 1 cause of the problem."

I half agree with you. I agree with the planet's human population is too high.

My disagreement is that fact that it is technologically possible today to support the current population on earth without exacerbating climate change, and perhaps even (slightly) reversing it. It would require the rapid transition to energy generation methods that did not contribute Greenhouse gases into the atmosphere.

Timothy T

"...new AGW religion..."

The difference that you seem to have missed is that Scientology makes "truth claims" for which there is no evidence - and plenty of conflicting evidence.

Anthropogenic Global Warming on the other hand is the mainstream, scientific view for which there is mountains of supporting evidence.

What Al Gore did or didn't do or said or didn't say is irrelevant. That matters is the evidence - and the evidence is clear - the planet is on average warming and human activities have contributed significantly to that warming.

"The AGW scaremongers have no shame or interest in a reasonable and logical debate."

You just referred to thousands of professional scientists as "scaremongers", implying quite clearly that they are prostituting their professional and personal integrity for ... some reason. An then you suggest they are not interested in "reasonable and logical debate".

Do you see the irony here?"Many scienceitists (sic) are now preparing for the next Ice Age thanks to a slowdown of the thermohaline circulation."

This isn't correct. It is unclear what the consequence will be from a slowdown of the thermohaline circulation, but if there is significant cooling, it will likely be localised - affecting countries in the North Atlantic region. The British Isles in particular are potentially at significant risk from this phenomenon.The issue is not what one guy (even if he founded Green Peace) thinks. The issue is what is the scientific consensus based on the peer-reviewed scientific literature. Has Dr Patrick Moore submitted a paper to any scientific journal demonstrating that his views (whatever they may be) are more likely correct than the current scientific views? If not, then why not?

I could name an astronomer in the USA who teaches in a secular (although small) university who believes the universe is 6,000 years old. He may be fully committed to that view (in his case for religious reasons), but that does not mean that his view has scientific merit."Yay, pause denial. The pause is 18 years and counting."

It is both easy and proper to deny something that is demonstrably false. The word "pause" clearly implies a cessation of warming - this is demonstrably false. The 10 hottest years on record have occurred AFTER 1998. It seems likely that 2014 will surpass 2010 as the hottest year ever since records began over 100 years ago.

There has been a slowdown of the rate at which global warming is occurring, but to state or imply that warming has stopped is contradicted by the actual evidence.John - I most definitely have checked the science. and I have used reliable sources to do so. I would encourage you to do the same and not simply rely on denialist websites or blogs. 

Are you disputing the actual temperature measurements, which have also been included in the "Averages of Global Surface Temperature" graph in the original article? What exactly are you disputing / denying here?The data is graphed in the article above. It's right there - did you even read the article?

You argue whatever you want - deny whatever you want, but the ACTUAL DATA is graphed on this very page.

I challenge you to do this - scroll up to the graph labelled "Averages of Global Surface Temperature" in the original article, and take a good look at it. Then ask yourself, what trend does this graph show? If you had to draw a trend line through it, would your line really be horizontal? Be honest now.

And remember, it was you who accused me of not analysing the data."... you say the evidence is irrefutable others say your (sic) wrong..."

It is irrelevant who says what. It is the actual evidence that matters. To reliably determine what this actual evidence is, one must go to the peer-reviewed scientific literature. A second and far more convenient option is to consult a secondary source which accurately summaries the current scientific view. Such sources are readily available, and include high school science text books, the websites of various country's meteorological offices, NASA and even the good old IPCC reports. 

Dare I say it, a tertiary source such as Wikipedia also generally provides reliable information on this topic."97% of Christians say God created the world 6000 years ago!"

Just for the sake of correctness, most Christians are not (young earth) creationists, and most (young earth) creationists are not Christians."The term "denier" or sceptic is not appropriate for discussion of climate change."

If a person denies a manifestly true statement (for whatever reason), then they can accurately be described as as denier. That is the correct use of the English word."One is not a denier when one disproves a claim."

That is true. But one is a denier when one denies manifestly and demonstrably accurate information.Patrick Moore's views are irrelevant to this discussion. What matters is what does the actual evidence, as communicated by the peer-reviewed scientific literature say.

And it is very clear on the point that the atmospheric CO2 concentration is increasing. This information is readily available online for those who are genuinely interested.

Also, you may want to read up on how ocean acidification is decreasing many marine organisms ability to produce and maintain their calcium carbonate shells.As a "man of the swinging voter who is economically conservative but socially progressive", I found this article confusing."Wrong, wrong, wrong."

C'mon Michael - surely you trust Mr Brandis. It's not like the current government has a reputation for deliberately and repeatedly saying things that are not entirely consistent with the truth ... oh wait..."...figures released last week..."

So, 2012 was last week? Interesting.

You have cut and pasted this article from the internet. It was originally printed in 2012.

So should I add plagiarism to cherry-picking data, misrepresenting scientists and fabricating "quotes".

"The problem is that climate "scientists" persistently demonstrate that they refuse to apply basic scientific principles to the topic"

So you, a non-scientist who I strongly suspect has never read a scientific paper in your life feels qualified to confidently conclude that thousands of scientists across the planet all "...refuse to apply basic scientific principles..." in their work. Impressive!

It is true that many people misunderstand the science and conflate weather with climate. However, the science is quite clear that a changing climate will affect weather events. There is a good table on page 7 of the IPCC AR5 report that summarizes the current scientific position on the link between climate change and changes in weather.

I agree with your comment that certain politicians have made stupid (and scientifically inaccurate) statements on this issue. The conservative side of politics are just as guilty of demonstrating scientific illiteracy as are the Greens. But personally, I am not all that interested in what politicians, bloggers, radio DJ's, or commentators say - I am only interested in what the scientific evidence says."It doesn't seem to have occurred to the warmists themselves..."

What is a "warmist"?"The IPCC will be shown to be the biggest confidence trick in human history with one dud prediction after another."

... or ... perhaps history will judge harshly the science denial that delayed the necessary corrective measures too long and our descendants are paying the price for our inaction."There is no significant man-made global warming at this time, there has been none in the past and there is no reason to fear any in the future."

This is YOUR opinions and you are entitled to it, but it is the exact opposite of what the scientific view is. Now, considering we are discussing a scientific issue, I will side with the science over YOUR opinion."Please name one climatologist who supports your argument?"

citizen smith - I'll get in before the denialists do here.

There are a tiny number of qualified, legitimate climate scientists who do not accept the current scientific consensus. As a result, your challenge is answerable. Research has shown however, that less than 3% of peer-reviewed, scientific papers dispute the scientific consensus. In other words, the scientific consensus is not entirely unanimous. Very few are.

What you sometimes find posted on forums like this one is long lists of scientists who allegedly dispute the science. However, when I have spent the time investigating the views of these scientists, I find that almost without exception, they do accept the basic science of anthropogenic climate change, but they argue that the consequences will be less severe than what the middle ground predictions currently suggest. I strongly suspect that many of these scientists would resent their names being put on lists published on science-denying websites, implying that they reject the science.A very valid point. The actions of the Greens at that time was in my opinion, very foolish and politically immature."Readings taken Nov. 1884"

1884 - what a great year that was.

That was the year that Germany took possession of Togoland and the cornerstone for the Statue of Liberty was laid on Bedloe's Island in New York Harbour.

Sadly, it was also the year that the Father of Genetics, Gregor Mendel died."... clearly shows that John's numbers are flagrantly cherry-picked."

John is quickly acquiring a reputation for consistently cherry-picking data, misquoting and even completely FABRICATING quotes in order to "win".

Seriously John? I mean seriously?

Because the science contradicts your personal view, therefore all of the scientists are lying - both categorically and unequivocally? All those thousands of scientists are all lying? I mean, seriously?

Seriously?"... science does not have a "view". The science merely states a position."

So science doesn't have a "view", but it does have a "position". Perhaps engaging in a little semantics?

"When the facts contradict the theory, the theory must change."

Do you really believe that? If 97% of the published peer-reviewed science accepts a particular scientific view (or position), and only 3% disagree, then why do you side with the 3%? I would be surprised if any evidence, no matter how compelling could cause you to change your view (or position) on this issue. You have demonstrated repeatedly a willingness to distort, misquote and completely fabricate "quotes" so as to win. That is hardly the behaviour of someone willing to change their view (or position) based on the available evidence."What I do is look at the logic and basis behind the '97% side' and if I find that to be flawed and/or faked, then I reject the claim."

So you honestly expect people to believe that you have competently, objectively and accurately read, understood and analysed the mountains of peer-reviewed science on this issue?

I doubt you have ever read a single peer-reviewed scientific paper in your life.

I think it is more likely that you consult denialist websites, accept the text on those sites as gospel truth and then copy paste that text onto the ABC forum. I have searched numerous sentences from your posts on this forum and I regularly find those sentences word for word copies of sentences that are on well known science-denying websites. Is that just a coincidence?

"... there is no "new" IPCC report ..."

Let's first correct your error - there IS a new IPCC report. What isn't new is the science that it summarizes.

You are free of course to criticise the wording of the questions. Personally I think the questions are satisfactory, but could be improved. I would be interested in what you would consider appropriate replacement questions.

I would also be interested to know specifically what facts have been dodged to avoid the alleged lefty beat up.
John - you have a less than exemplary record of accurately representing the science through your selective, out of context and completely fabricated "quotes"."I'm sorry that you don't like the facts."

It is precisely my respect for the facts and my respect for the integrity of the scientific method that motivates me to post on this forum.

I do find it extremely ironic that I am accused of not liking the facts by someone who denies the mainstream scientific consensus, accuses thousands of scientists of being involved in a massive global conspiracy to distort the truth because they are all too scared of losing their funding and who has been busted completely fabricating "quotes" to try to win your argument.


Here we go - ye olde "all those intellectually dishonest scientists just in it for the money" conspiracy theory.

I'd wager more than a few dollars that you've never met an actual scientist. I have met many, and I have found them to be highly ethical and to have the utmost respect for evidence based science.

Do have any evidence to support your assertion that scientists are as you describe?It is disturbing and concerning that there is a strong correlation between the accepted science and political preference. It is hard to imagine another area (with perhaps the exception of creationism) where an identifiable group in the community deny a particular scientific view.

Sadly, it reflects the low levels of scientific literacy in this country.
"90% + reckon the latest IPCC report is B"

Which illustrates the appalling lack of scientific literacy in this country."What was the cause of the Biblical 40 day and 40 night floods"

A creative human mind manufacturing the fable.Also, to qualify as a "scientist", a person need only have a single undergraduate degree.

And those 31,000 people represent about 0.3% of eligible respondents. So that would mean that 99.7% of eligible respondents have chosen to not sign the petition."...global warming scam."

But the planet is warming."We don't care anymore."

Yet you took the time to post your opinion on this forum ... which one might interpret as you caring.

Also, you might want to actually read the article you are responding to - the evidence is that MORE people are accepting the science. Thankfully, those who deny the scientific view are decreasing in number. Unfortunately, the small number of denialists left seem to be getting louder and louder.
"We'll give you lots of money to prove that the world is heating up," what do you think the scientists will tell the government?"

The vast majority would say, "we will tell you what the available evidence indicates". And even those who may choose to prostitute themselves academically, the peer-review process and the scientific method would filter them out. The single most powerful tool the armory of science is its built in ability to self correct. If there really was some massive global conspiracy as PTL clearly implies, then science itself would expose and correct it.


"... the single most powerful motivating factor amongst the global alarmists is cowardice". 

By "alarmist", I assume that you mean "scientist". But do you honestly expect to be taken seriously when that is your opening sentence? Do you honestly believe that thousands of scientists opinions are shaped by cowardice and not the actual evidence? Have you actually met a scientist?

You correctly point out that people can and do have biases - hardly an earth-shattering revelation. However, the peer-review process and the scientific method themselves go a very long way towards eliminating bias from science. Of course, you could always just assert or imply that all (or perhaps only most) of the planet's scientists are either involved in a massive global conspiracy or are hopelessly incompetent."So called global warming' is well and truly over"

The problem is however that the earth's thermometers have a different view than you do. Considering the issue at hand involves temperature, I think I'll go with the temperature readings."... global warming' nonsense ..."

What you called "nonsense", regular people call demonstrable fact."Actually, the AGW myth is getting more and more threadbare by the day."

Actually it isn't. Contrary to what some denialist websites assert, the actual scientific view is becoming more certain by the day. There is simply no dispute in the relevant scientific literature that the planet is warming, and humans are largely responsible for the increased warming.

"The IPCC report itself states that the scientists really have no idea why the warming has stopped."

No it simply doesn't. The IPCC does NOT say the warming has stopped. No climate scientist on the planet believes the warming has stopped. That is simply as denialist meme that gets repeated - but is directly contradicted by the scientific evidence.
The scientific literature is publicly available for anyone interested enough to check. Reviews of the relevant literature (tens of thousands of scientific papers) have shown that less than 3% cast doubt on the scientific consensus that the planet is warming, the climate is changing and human activity is contributing significantly to both.

This is simply demonstrably true. Anyone can get the papers themselves, read them, count them ...
I just googled " ... an observable cessation to global warming over the last decadal analysis ..." and I got 14 hits. I checked EVERY one of them, and EVERY one was a forum post on the ABC forums by some guy named "John". It is curious (to me at least) that this sentence has not ever been published by any news media on the planet or apparently, the IPCC.

Now, it is possible I suppose that google has a serious flaw or that you've misquoted the actual text, but if such a sentence (or something approximating it) has ever been written by he IPCC, I'd like to read it in context. Perhaps you have a direct link or a reference for me?John,

Let me check the accuracy of these new (alleged) quotes.

Remember, if you are using "quotation marks", you are saying that you are quoting word for word - no paraphrasing allowed. Also, it is considered to be misleading to snip a few words out of the middle of a sentence if by doing so you change the meaning (even slightly) of the original sentence.

Now to your new four quotes.

Of the 4 (alleged) quotes, ONLY TWO actually exist in the IPCC AR5 report. Only two! The other two of your "quotes" however are similar to actual sentences that do appear in the report - but you are using QUOTES, so similar is not good enough.

All four of your "quotes" are snipped sections out of the MIDDLE of sentences, even though two of your quotes do NOT indicate this. In at least two of these "quotes", by snipping out the words that you have, you have quite clearly conveyed a meaning that is not identical to the meaning that the original authors intended. Such a practice is generally viewed as misleading.

Considering that you have such an interest in the IPCC AR5 report, let me now (accurately) quote from it.

"Warming of the climate system is unequivocal, and since the 1950s, many of the observed changes are unprecedented over decades to millennia. The atmosphere and ocean have warmed, the amounts of snow and ice have diminished, sea level has risen, and the concentrations of greenhouse gases have increased."

John, I am committed to check each and every one of your future science-denying posts and any alleged quotes that they contain. Where I find quotations fabricated, misquoted or snipped so as to change their meaning, I will continue to call you out on it.

If the evidence was really on the side of those who dispute the science, there would be no need to fabricate or misleadingly edit quotes to try to win the argument.

John - after failing to find anywhere on the entire internet where the sentence " ... an observable cessation to global warming over the last decadal analysis ..." exists with the 14 exceptions of your own forum posts on the ABC forums, I took the trouble to download the entire IPCC AR5 report (all 375 MB of it). I have just spent the last half hour searching through that document to find that sentence that you are allegedly QUOTING (which is what you do when you use quotation marks). Not only is that sentence NOT there - I could find no other sentence that said anything like that. I did however find lots of sentences that said very different things.

So what I am to conclude? Either you have made a genuine mistake (which you have now made 15 times, according to google), or you are being deliberately misleading. I have a suspicion which it is, but either way I will make sure I take the time to check any of your other alleged "facts" that you post regarding this issue.You really should learn how to search the internet. Just because YOU can't find something doesn't mean it isn't there.

Protip - when you search for an exact phrase, make sure you put quotes around the phrase. I suggest you have another try - but this time with the quotes around the phrase "an observable cessation to global warming over the last decadal analysis".

The IPCC AR5 report is available as a SINGLE PDF file easily located on the internet. It is a single, 375 MB PDF file, 1552 pages in length. Seriously, I am having difficulty believing that you made a genuine effort to find that document.

One of us has limited internet searching skills, and it isn't me.
"Name a town or city where the climate has changed".

EVERY town and city on planet earth. It is the planet's climate that is changing.

"AGW? I've seen nothing vaguely persuasive" 

Tens of thousands of peer-reviewed scientific papers have been written on this subject by thousands of scientists which describe and analyse the evidence. Have you ever read even one of these papers? Neither denying the scientific evidence nor being ignorant of the scientific evidence does not constitute a rational rebuttal of the scientific evidence."Ian refers to politicians as barely literate and ignorant."

I think he is referring to scientific literacy, and ignorance of basic science."...none have predicted any of the last 17-19 years of average global cooling."

I am very pleased that the models have not predicted "17-19 years of average global cooling", when for the last 17-19 years, the average temperature of the planet has RISEN.

Can you please reference even a single scientific paper that provides any evidence whatsoever that the planet is cooler now than it was 17-19 years ago? If not, then I would be justified in concluding that your comment is "beyond worthless and should be ignored implicitly".
So the planet's scientists are all involved in a massive global conspiracy then ... or possibly are all hopelessly incompetent ... or maybe a bit of both. I'm glad we've finally cleared that one up.So it's an unintentional conspiracy then?

And I would REALLY like you to provide some evidence for your astounding (and highly insulting) accusation that the world's scientists are a bunch of wimps who are all prepared to surrender their professional (and personal) integrity to avoid being criticised by someone with a different view."It does not identify fossil fuels as a cause. There is no empirical evidence whatsoever that supports this claim."

Actually there is. The physics of global warming is well understood and has been for quite some time now. To claim there is "no empirical evidence whatsoever" when the evidence can be found in high school science text books (and many reliable websites) is really difficult to justify....had been a pause in warming..."

There has NEVER been a pause in warming. There has been a slow down in the rate of atmospheric warming. Repeating denialist memes do not make them true. Likewise, asserting that there is some global "AGW scam" in operation really does not add credibility to your comments. Lastly, the science regarding fact of AGW is most definitely settled. The number of suitably qualified scientists who completely reject the scientific consensus regarding climate change is roughly equivalent to the number of suitably qualified scientists who believe the earth is 6,000 years old."...even the IPCC admits to a pause..."

They "admit" no such thing. You are simply parroting denialist propaganda. The scientific view is that the planet continues to warm - both in the oceans and the atmosphere. The ten hottest years on record (since records were first made in 1880) have all happened after 1998. 2010 is the hottest year so far, with last year being the 4th hottest year on record. It is now looking very much like 2014 will overtake 2010 as the hottest year on record.

And your conspiracy theory explanation of the scientific consensus is insulting to scientists as both people and professionals and is really not worthy of a rebuttal.The climate HAS changed over the whole earth - that is the point.

The oceans are warmer, the atmosphere is warmer, sea levels are higher, sea acidity has increased, continental ice is shrinking rapidly, flora and fauna are changing their ranges and breeding behaviour as a result, floods are becoming more severe and more common, periods of hot/cold/dry/wet are becoming more extreme. I'm just not sure how you could be unaware of these changes."Time to forget this climate nonsense..."

Unfortunately, facts are not interested in your opinion. Personally I'd love to change facts by simply ignoring or disbelieving them. I'd start with the link between kilojoules and the circumference of my waist."The CO2 tax had nothing to do with environment or 'global warming'."

I think you'll find that it did. It's intention was to reduce Australia's greenhouse gas emissions - which it actually did achieve.What Tim Flannery says, thinks or sings is irrelevant. What matters is what does the peer-reviewed science say. And it says that the ALREADY measured sea level rises will continue to rise - and likely accelerate. This has serious consequences down the track for those living in low lying coastal areas - particularly those people living in poorer countries."There is no evidence that anthropogenic CO2 causes global warming."

That is a bold assertion and one that is the exact opposite of what the scientific community believes. I am curious to know why any readers here should accept your opinion over the scientific consensus on this issue?
Let me just respond to this one comment.

"None f (sic) the 'consensus scientis' (sic) predictions in relation to AGW have actually come true yet."

Well, let's consider some of the predictions:

* The planet will warm up - which IS happening.
* Sea levels will rise - which IS happening.
* Continental ice will decline - which IS happening.
* Ocean's acidity will increase - which IS happening.
* Weather events will become more severe - which IS happening.
* The range of various organisms will dramatically change - which IS happening.
* Flowering / Breeding seasons for some organism will change - which IS happening.
"Also shows the alarmists' hypocrisy..."

Amber, what is an "alarmist" in your view? Who are these "alarmists" whose "outcry" you point to? Can you quote for me an "alarmist" who has criticised the increase in fuel excise? I'm just looking for some sort of rational justification for what you've written."...and achieves nothing."

Actually, it achieves the goal of increasing our use of renewable energy and therefore decreases our use of polluting fossil fuels. Less pollution is a good thing.CraigOfBathurst - I apologise for not writing my comment how you expected it to be written. Let me rectify that oversight.

"Actually, it achieves the goal of increasing our use of renewable energy and therefore decreases our use of polluting fossil fuels. Less pollution is a good thing ... as it will result in cleaner air, less greenhouse gas production, less global warming and less dramatic climate changes than otherwise would have resulted.

"No use prevaricating about the bush." - Wallace"Fossil fuels do not pollute."

That is true ... until you burn them.Sadly Fortress, I suspect you are correct ... at least for many people. But I for one would be quite prepared to pay extra per year towards programs that would reduce pollution and our dependency on fossil fuels. I am yet to hear a sound economic argument against putting a price on carbon.With Mr Abbott's policies of removing the carbon price and reducing the RET, once might be tempted to conclude that he doesn't actually accept the science of anthropogenic climate change.Thank you for your quality post bozo. I would encourage you to take the time to post on the ABC forums again in the future - I found your post interesting and informative. 

"Why is the ABC so keen to raise the GST?"

To be fair, I suspect that the ABC actually doesn't have a policy on whether the GST should be raised."However!, you can only lie once &amp; from then on no one will ever believe a word you say..."

I wish that was true, but sadly it isn't. Some politicians are extremely good liars and can fool people. Some voters are just "cheer-girls" for their "team" and care only that their team "wins". The honestly of the politicians on their team is simply not relevant.

Tony Abbott told many clear and indisputable lies in the weeks leading up to the last election. However, I don't think any sensible person would form the view that he now has no chance to win a second term.frank - there are plenty of articles on this forum that relate to the topic of global warming and climate change. This isn't one of them.
Tony Abbott is a very skilled politician - and so of course he is going to use fear to raise his standings in the polls. It worked brilliantly for him in opposition, so why would he give up this tactic now?

Now all he needs to work on is his honesty, his scientific literacy and his empathy for those less fortunate than himself.
"...climate doesn't change in response to anything human beings do..."

That may be your opinion, but it directly contradicts the scientific consensus on the issue. Is there a good reason why people should accept your opinion over the scientific view?John - that may be YOUR opinion - but it is the exact opposite of the opinion of the scientific community."Renewables can not and will not run industry. Period."

Actually they will - it is only a matter of time. All that is required is improved energy storage technology. My understanding is that as a result of recent advances in battery technology, we are almost at a point where technology is no longer a barrier to a 100% renewable energy society. Personally, I think it will be many decades before we completely give up our dependence on fossil fuels, but it will eventually happen. No sane person would suggest that fossil fuels will last indefinitely.It has NEVER been debunked, contrary to what science-denying internet bloggers assert.

There have been several peer-reviewed studies published over the years in the scientific literature which have consistently shown that the acceptance of the theory of anthropogenic global warming and climate change is in the region of 95% plus. If you want to find these studies, they are referenced on the NASA climate website.

In order to support your assertion that these papers have been "debunked", then feel free to reference the specific peer-reviewed scientific paper that does the debunking. If you cannot reference even one such paper, then how on earth can you rationally claim that they are wrong. Did you actually read these papers yourself?

I would encourage you to treat what you read on denialist and conspiracy theory websites skeptically. Not everything (and arguably, very little) they write on those sites is entirely consistent with the actual evidence.

John - I've posted two detailed responses to this claim but my posts have not passed the moderators. I am unclear why.

So, I will simply say that the 97% acceptance by relevant scientists is widely accepted and is based on robust peer-reviewed analyses. It has NOT been debunked.Thank you Dr Hewson for you article. I find myself agreeing with it. I wish the Liberal Party would return back towards the political centre where social justice and science were valued. 

* Pokes Malcolm Turnbull *I have to admit that I thought the sentence imposed on him was extremely lenient, considering the severity of his crime. I can't help and think that were he not famous/rich/disabled, the sentence would have been much more severe.Maryanne - It is difficult to rationally argue a scientific issue with someone who simply asserts there is a massive global conspiracy among the planet's scientists, who are all either distorting, faking or misrepresenting the scientific evidence.

I would be curious to know WHAT SPECIFIC EVIDENCE you have discovered that has allowed you to uncover this "conspiracy"?
"... it seems that AGW is a myth perpetrated by grant-hungry 'scientists' "

Actually it isn't. AGW (to use your term) is accepted mainstream science.

You are free to argue the science if you wish, but you are not free to misrepresent the status that AGW has within the scientific community.Sorry Realist - but you are simply wrong. Although there is uncertainty regarding the severity and consequences of climate change - the FACT of climate change is not disputed within the scientific community. It is mainstream science.Greg - climate does vary naturally over time. No scientist on the planet would argue against that simple fact. The problem is that the current global warming and resulting climate change are happening much faster (as in hundreds of times faster) than would otherwise occur. And these conclusions have been reached by the scientific community as a result of their study of the available evidence, not because they "want" to believe it so the rich can be taxed to redistribute wealth."CLiamate (sic) change is not man-made"

Says you. The scientific community says the exact opposite.

Also, what is an "alarmist"? I've asked numerous times on this forum and have yet to receive an answer. All I want is a simple definition of this term.Thank you for your reply Mick.

I agree with almost everything you've written. Your last two sentences are problematic - but I'll let that go for now.

The problem is that many of the people who the word "alarmist" on this website use it to describe anyone who accepts the scientific consensus - not just people who lie or deliberately exaggerate."At the moment the jury is out"

That assertion is is simply false. The scientific community HAS reached the view that the evidence available clearly shows that the planet is warming, the climate is changing and human activity is predominantly responsible for it.
A consensus in science is reached when the very large majority of scientists that a particular explanation is likely to be correct. the fact that a consensus is formed doesn't mean that the view is certainly correct. In science, all explanations are held tentatively. But what it does mean is that the view is much more likely to be correct than an opposing view.

There is a scientific consensus that a water molecule consists of two hydrogen atoms and an oxygen atom. There is a scientific consensus that all life on earth shares a common ancestor. There is a scientific consensus that the planet is warming and the climate is changing as a result of human activity. It is POSSIBLE that all of the scientists are wrong, but is it likely?

Also, several peer-reviewed studies have surveyed the relevant scientific literature and have determined that the support for anthropogenic climate change is close to unanimous. The studies find acceptance is above 95% of climate scientists. Some science-deniers have asserted that the authors (and the peer reviewers) are either corruptly involved in a massive conspiracy or they are hopelessly incompetent - but interestingly have not yet published in the scientific literature any sound rebuttal.
"The structure of H2O is verifiable by observation" - This is simply wrong. It is inferred from indirect evidence.

"The hypothesis of AGW is as yet unproven" - Science can never "prove" anything in an absolute sense. Even the structure of a water molecule is not "proven" in an absolute sense. AGW is a scientific explanation which has gained the support of the scientific community. It is the accepted mainstream scientific view and based on your second last paragraph, you accept the science as well. The problem is that on this forum, there are people who deny the planet is warming, who deny that CO2 is a greenhouse gas, who deny the climate is changing, and who deny that human activity is playing a role. It is those deniers that I have a problem with.

Marryanne - you say "Sorry, Theos, but the history of science proves you are wrong"

I have NEVER said (or even implied) that a consensus cannot be overturned. In fact I have said on this very page that all scientific explanations are held tentatively. No one disputes that historically, there have been consensuses which have been shown to be wrong. However, in order to do that, scientific evidence is required.

At this point in time, the scientific community has formed a consensus opinion that the scientific evidence strongly points to the fact that human activity is responsible for the measured global temperature increases and the associated climate change. Until contradictory evidence is provided (AND NOT BEFORE), it will be reasonable to dismiss those who deny the currently accepted scientific position. To those who assert a massive global scientific conspiracy, then ridicule is probably appropriate.

Correctly stated, the claim is that you cannot prove a universal negative. For example, it is impossible to prove (in the absolute sense) that there are no elephants in someone's underpants somewhere in the multiverse. Remember, absolute proof is not identical to asserting that something is prohibitively improbable.

Proving a specific localised negative is often trivially easy, as you just demonstrated by checking your own underpants for elephants."...to the unequivocal proof..."

This comment shows a misunderstanding of science.

Science never does nor never can provide "unequivocal proof" of anything. However, the scientific community have reached the consensus view that the weight of the evidence strongly indicates that greenhouse gases are warming the planet, which in turn is affecting out climate. So confident are the scientific community of this, that it is considered to be "true" by scientific community.With respect Maryanne - your comment clearly demonstrates that do not understand what science actually is.

Science does NOT deal with truth. Truth is a philosophical concept, not a scientific one. In science, you have observations and explanations (called Theories). 

Mathematical formulas have nothing to do with what science is or isn't. Surely you understand that science and mathematics are not the same thing?"... team denial or team alarmism"

What if you are on team "accept the mainstream scientific consensus"?"... ridiculous spending."

Like paying rich women $50,000 to have a baby and paying for religious chaplains in public schools while refusing to pay for qualified, experienced, secular counselors?

Pathetic really." this ... government will win not only in 2016, but also the following election. At a minimum."

A courageous claim, as Sir Humphrey Appleby would say.I really found the comment offensive and just plain stupid. It is a commend that I'd expect to hear in a school playground, not from one of our countries "leader". It reflects poorly on Senator Cormann's maturity and judgement. And considering the current government has doubled the deficit since they've come to power, they are hardly demonstrating that they are economic muscle-men.What is an "alarmist"? I've asked this question repeatedly of people who use the term - but I am yet to get an answer. Please give me a definition.

But to your comment, "the science is settled", the FACT of AGW is settled, but the specific details of the exact effects and consequences of AGW is not (and probably will never be) known PERFECTLY. This is the same for probably every scientific fact we have. No scientist disputes that atoms exist - but we do not fully understand in every minute detail of how they operate.

Just because we don't know everything does not mean we don't know anything."only it's not, Mungo, the heat isn't being trapped anywhere."

That is categorically false. Do you know something that the climate scientists don't?Almost entirely into the oceans. How could you not know this?

I would encourage you to obtain your scientific knowledge from reliable sources and not science-denying internet blogs or right wing shock jocks.Maryanne - You claim to have looked at the scientific data - but based on our comments I find that extremely hard to believe. I suspect that what you have done is visit science denying internet blogs and trust the contents of those blogs as gospel truth. Have you ever read even a single scientific paper? Have you ever met a scientist? Have you even visited websites that contain scientifically reliable information such as NASA, BOM or the British Met office?

While you deny established science and propose massive global conspiracies - I'll simply accept the scientific consensus reached as communicated in the peer-reviewed scientific literature.Last week's episode of the ABC's science show Catalyst went some depth into the alleged "pause" in global warming. Dr Karl has also written recently on this point - http://www.abc.net.au/science/articles/2014/09/16/4088609.htm and http://www.abc.net.au/science/articles/2014/09/23/4092966.htm.

What is an alarmist? I keep asking but am yet to get an answer. Please provide a definition."Dear me, if there has been no warming ..."

But there HAS been warming. The planet is measurably getting hotter. The five hottest years on record (since records began in 1880) are from 5th hottest to THE hottest are 1995, 1997, 1998, 2005 and 2010.
There is an expectation that 2014 may well end up being the hottest year on record, surpassing 2010, the current record holder.Actually it hasn't been "proved (sic) to be utter crap". That is an internet meme promoted by science deniers who think that by repeating a claim enough times somehow makes it true. 

Several PEER REVIEWED scientific studies have shown that the vast majority (95+ %) of climate scientists accept the scientific consensus that the planet is warming and human activity is significantly contributing to that warming.Realist - actually I am correct. I replied to this post earlier listing the peer-reviewed papers that demonstrate that fact - but for some reason, the ABC moderators chose not to publish my reply. But anyone interested can easily use an internet search engine and find them themselves. The NASA climate change website would be a good place to start.I would encourage you to enhance your understanding of the peer-review process, as your comment demonstrates some deficiencies in your understanding of that process.Although I disagree with almost everything Dr Dickson believes, I do appreciate the fact that the ABC provides him a platform for his organisation to express their opinions. Compared to many of the other Christian organisations out there, Centre for Public Christianity provides intelligent, mature and academically reasonable content. The number of responses here demonstrated that the topic is of sufficient interest to the ABC's readers to justify this discussion."Gnosticism" and "Agnosticism" refer to what you know, or claim to know. "Theism" and "Atheist" refer to what you believe. Therefore these pairs of terms refer to different things.

I do not know if a god exists, but I do not believe that one does. Therefore I am an agnostic atheist. Dr Dickson would also not claim to know if a god exists, but he does believe in one. Therefore he would be an agnostic theist. Many evangelical Christians (and some of the contributers to this discussion) claim to "know" that a god exists. They would therefore be gnostic theists.Seriously? OK then, lets start with the fact that bats are mammals and not birds, as Leviticus 11:13-19 clearly states.I can't help but conclude that you have just rationalised an obviously scientifically incorrect statement. Surely an omnipotent and omniscient being would know that bats are mammals."I subscribe to the view that, when people are encouraged to overcome their inherent and sometimes unavoidable prejudice, a new focus enters their thinking process."

I think you'd be surprised at how many atheists who were raised religious would entirely agree with your view. I suspect it would be close to 100%.Your criticism of Paul M's post is fine, except that his third paragraph is essentially correct."There is plenty of evidence to suggest that not only GOD exists but Jesus also did exist and still exists."

I'm especially interested in the evidence that Jesus still exists. Please enlighten me.

"That's because they (atheists) choose not to believe"

A person cannot choose their beliefs. They are either convinced (and therefore believe) or are unconvinced (and therefore do not believe)."We know ..."

Actually, you don't know. You believe.

Knowledge is demonstrable. Beliefs are asserted, and you have just asserted."It is most important to find out facts from fiction."

Agreed.

"There is (sic) more accounts of the historical Jesus than there is of Julius Ceaser (sic) ..."

This is simply false. No historian on earth would agree with you."Logically, there are only 3 reasons ..."

With respect, your understanding of logic is flawed - there are clearly more than three possibilities here. A fourth possibility is that Jesus may have been honestly mistaken.

However, the most likely "explanation" is that the alleged deeds and sayings reported in the Bible are simply not accurate. They have been embellished or invented by various other people for various reasons.And to be fair, I think that the vast majority of informed atheists would agree with everything you have written there. Richard Carrier has a reasonable hypothesis, but I suspect he will struggle to make inroads into the current consensus on this issue.An excellent article. I often tell people that life for most people on earth today is vastly superior to the lives of people who lived centuries before us. The clever British historical comedy sketch show "Horrible Histories" (ABC3 Weeknights at 7pm) is quite good at contrasting the modern comfortable lives we have compared to those who lived before us.I personally can't even bring myself to visit the news website anymore.I doubt any commentators on this site mind the author promoting the benefits of "mindfulness" and "meditation". What many do have a problem with is the author's opening statement, "There is still a great power in prayer". Many people hold the view that prayer is either pointless or harmful, or somewhere in between.Correctly put, it is impossible to disprove a UNIVERSAL negative (such as there are no gods). Disproving a non-universal negative (such as there is no dinosaur in my kitchen) is often trivially easy.On this point, even though a negative correlation between education and religiosity has been demonstrated, the fact remains that many intelligent and educated people still hold supernatural beliefs. Humans have a remarkable ability to compartmentalise their beliefs and rationalise (or ignore) obviously contradictions between them. Intelligent people are particularly good at doing this.

I would recommend the book "Why People Believe Weird Things" by Michael Shermer for some discussion of this.Prayer is simply talking to a god. It can be done quietly and reflectively as the author suggests  (and thus have a calming effect on the prayer) or it can be done with over the top enthusiasm or even aggression, like you might see with American pentecostal preachers (and therefore can enthuse, excite or motivate).

It is true of course that person employ different strategies to help manage their moods - be it meditation, prayer, thoughtful contemplation, bush walking, crossword puzzles, stimulating discussion, reading, writing, gardening etc etc. All of these activities can have a degree of "power" in helping the participant cope with the stresses of life - no one would argue against that.

However, prayer in traditional Christianity is more than a consoling activity - it is attempting to communicate with an invisible super being for the purpose of telling him (invisible super beings always seem to be male) how great he is (worship) or asking him for a favour (petition).

It is interesting though, that prayer has never been demonstrated to actually work. I'm not talking about the unemployed young person who prays for a job and finally gets one, or the man who loses his car keys, prays and then finds them 5 minutes later. I could pray that the sun "rises" tomorrow morning - would that prove prayer is efficacious?

And now for a simple test of the efficacy of prayer - arrange for 100 million Christians to pray to YHWH in Jesus name that an amputee be healed. And please, if you are a Christian, please reread John 14:13-14 before you respond.The difference is that indigenous people have their stories which rightly pay an important role in their culture. But indigenous people today generally don't claim that their myths are historically accurate and that their deities really exist. Modern religions on the other hand often do claim that their myths are historically accurate and their deities really do exist. Further, some religions claim that you can pray to your deity who may then answer your prayer by interacting with physical reality.

I have great respect for Dreamtime stories and other indigenous myths - but I have no respect for anyone who wants to teach (as an example) Children that there was a global flood 4000 years ago."Atheists are a minority in Australia and a shrinking minority worldwide"

Your first assertion is dubious, and depends on your definition of "atheist". The fact is that less than 10% of Australians actually follow a faith - as in the person is generally cognisant of, believes and follows the tenants of that particular religion.

Your second definition is simply measurably false. In almost all countries where religiosity is measured, those identifying as having no religion is growing rapidly. And the large bulk of this increase is in the world's youth.
So, an economist who is also a climate change denier is attacking an university for making a policy decision that in part is an attempt to reduce the harmful effects of climate change. Until science deniers like Mr Davidson actually accept the science, there is little chance that they will write in support of actions which attempt to mitigate problems resulting from climate change."Another fact free missive from Greg Jericho."

Did you even read the article? From the start to the finish of Greg's article, he lists nothing but facts - he even provides graphs for those of you unable of too lazy to read his article.

Also, Greg hasn't suggested that we are living in a Marxist state. He didn't imply that all wealth belongs to the state. He also hasn't claimed that people not wanting to earn are entitled to everything a person earning has. Seriously, did you actually read the article?

You may want to take your own advice regarding the Bex and a lie down."There is more and more evidence that the effects of global emissions are negligible."

Says YOU - and some right wing shock jocks and miscellaneous other science deniers. However, the scientific consensus that has been reached is the exact opposite of your opinion. Specifically, global emissions of greenhouse gases through human activities such as burning fossil fuels and various agricultural practices have indeed contributed significantly to the observed and measured global temperature rises and the changes in our climate that the increased heat have caused.Amber - you are simply parroting what you have read on science denying internet blogs. These claims have all been thoroughly refuted time and time again - often on this very forum. If you are genuine about having a correct scientific understanding of these issues, then please consider consulting a scientifically reliable sources for your information, rather than denialist blogs."The positive formulation of the Golden Rule is - so far as we know - unique to Jesus."

That may be as far as YOU know - but you would be very wring. The first (of many) written formalisation of the "Golden Rule" was in The Code of Hammurabi, written Babylonian laws from ancient Mesopotamia and dating about 1772 BC. That is about 2,000 years before the anonymous new testament writers plagiarised it."Given the scope and scale of this review, such a limited engagement with evidence is troubling."

Your mistake was to assume that evidence was some how related to promoting right wing ideologies.The government should know exactly how many people are receiving unemployment benefits each fortnight. Although this wouldn't be an exact measurement (due for example, to some unemployed people being ineligible for benefits), it would be sufficiently accurate and easily obtained.A balanced, rational view - and one that I would generally support. The problem is not religion per se, it is extremism, fundamentalism, tribalism, intolerance, racism etc."But please, don't claim climate change science is settled."

Well, it depends what you mean by "settled". It is true that there is a scientific consensus that the climate is changing and that human activity has played a significant role in this change - so that is settled. What is not settled is the severity of the predicted consequences.neil - That all sounds very "sciency" - and I'm sure that you've done a good job of cut and paste from your favourite denialist website or blog. But the conclusions that you've reached (or that the author of the blog you've read reached) is the opposite of what the scientific community accept. Now, if you honestly believe that your views are correct, and the views of the scientific community are wrong, then you should argue your case in the peer-reviewed scientific literature. They give Nobel prizes to people who are able to completely overturn a scientific consensus.That would mean that you agree with the second option "We are just witnessing a normal fluctuation in the earth?s climate". It would also mean that you disagree with the scientific consensus."There are thousands of scientists who dispute man made global warming..."

There are thousands of "scientists" who dispute biological evolution. A quick Google search will find long lists normally on creationist websites. The point is, it is not what a particular group of people think - the issue is what is the scientific consensus based on the peer-reviewed science? And on that question it is clear and certain - the planet is warming and the climate is changing - and human activity has significantly contributed to the changes.

Anyway, I guess you are talking about the "Petition Project" in the US. That would be the program in which 0.3% of science graduates signed their list. Yep - one third of one percent of illegible "scientists".
Legitimate scientific debate happens in one place - the peer reviewed scientific literature and not on internet forums. There is NO debate in the scientific literature as to the reality of anthropogenic climate change."Sure has"

Nope - actually it hasn't. 13 of the 14 warmest years have occurred since the year 2000. 2010 is the warmest year on record.

"And the record antarctic ice sheet size proves it."

Actually it proves the exact opposite. Increased winds caused by climate change have increased the spread of sea ice (frozen salt water), while the continental Antartic ice (frozen fresh water) rapidly shrinks."Global warming is crap"
No - it can be and has been measured.

"...the data tells us there is no warming."
No - it tells us there is warming.

I would encourage you to research your facts from a reliable source before you post a comment."Rest assured 'anthropogenic CO2 induced global warming', if it ever existed, is now well and truly declared OVER"

Says you (and thankfully a decreasing number of science deniers). However, the scientists (and thankfully an increasing number of world leaders) say the exact opposite.It is disturbing that a relatively small but extremely vocal (and extremely well funded) group of "skeptics" have managed to convince such a large (and thankfully decreasing) minority of the public that either:

1.) There is a massive, global conspiracy amongst scientists, or
2.) The scientific community are hopelessly incompetent.

With the possible exception of young-earth creationism in the USA and within Muslim countries, I cannot imagine any other mainstream scientific view being rejected by a significant minority of the public. Try for example imagining that 30% of Australian's do not believe in atoms, or 30% of English people reject the second law of thermodynamics. It would be humorous if the consequences of denial and inaction were not so potentially dangerous."With no warming for 17 years and 10 months..."

Here we go again...

For those interested in why this claim is so dishonest, please check out Dr Karl's most recent article on the topic: http://www.abc.net.au/science/articles/2014/09/23/4092966.htm

People are entitled to their own opinion, but they are not entitled to their own facts. The fact is that the climate is measurably changing and the scientific consensus is that human activity has contributed significantly to recent climate change. 

"Every thinking person would (sic) know that global warming (sorry, climate change) scaremongering is the con of the 21st century."

Every educated person DOES know that global warming and the resulting climate change is one of the most serious problems facing humanity in the 21st Century.
