Nice try, the other side, but full of problems.

With regard to prices coming down, that remains to be seen. It is very likely the prices will not come down very much, certainly not as much as Abbott suggests. And even if they do, the price will continue to rise and the gain will the repeal be lost and the people will realise they have been dudded.

That Labor delayed for a while the repeal of the Carbon Tax is to their credit. They are supported in putting a price on carbon by the direction of the rest of the industrialised world. Abbott's Direct Action plan will be revealed for the expensive fraud that it is (Clive is certainly right about that). Abbott is isolating Oz from the rest of the world.

Also still to be played out is the "Stop the Boats" program. How keeping silent will stop people smugglers when people smugglers do not know what is happening is a mystery. Strangely, Abbott was not above counting out in public the numbers of boats while in Opposition. How much has he been responsible for the "pull" factor as Opposition leader? How long can he afford this bogus border protection? 

Meanwhile, the other side, you are right about Abbott breaking trust and being "irritatingly unconvincing". And it looks as if most of the Abbott/Hockey budget will not get through even before Christmas. What to do?

So Abbott will have achieved nothing to tackle the faux "economic crisis" in more than a year of fluffing about.

And we still have the loss of the car industry jobs to anticipate with glee on top of all the tax increases and loss of "entitlements", the struggle of states to fend for themselves and dissatisfaction in Coalition run states generally. A train wreck in the making!

So perhaps Warren Truss would be a good replacement for Abbott? Good luck with that!So the people coming here are the ones who "stuffed up" their countries? The truth is that someone else is stuffing up their country and that is why they are seeking refuge.

So what do we do? We send them back to the perpetrators of the stuff up.

But when people go back to clean up the stuff up, we refuse to let them back here because they might be indoctrinated as terrorists.

Are we so full of xenophobia and paranoia?"Heartless righties"/

Just look at the "budget" for further proof.OK, so stopping deaths is good, but the method is questionable.

And how long can we keep patrolling the seas - and at what cost?

Then there is the question of what happens when we have stopped the drownings and sent people back to where they do not want to be - or to places which do not want them.

Sounds like a lot of passing the buck.So where do they get these pieces of paper if there is no access? So far the "smugglers" have provided that service. The paperless people have no choice and life is too short and these people are willing to take the risk.

But Fortress Oz is more interested in bits of paper than in people's lives.Ah, yes, Aussie Sutra. The politics of envy.

The refugees who have been taken in are not allowed to work. How do they survive?

They will reward us with contribution to our economy into the future. This has been shown to be true now for generations of immigrants from around the world. It is how Oz has developed for some 50-60 thousand years.APM, 

You cite the examples of refugees destroying their documents. What you did not cite is the fact that where they came from there was no easy access to an Oz embassy where they could get genuine papers. So the "people smugglers", providing a service, provide false papers, which the refugees discard once they reach Indonesia.

What is not cited is any explanation why people using boats pay some $10 000 to go by boat rather than simply fly into Oz for less cost. Perhaps the lack of access to visas is one reason.

Yet the best you can do is claim that what the refugees do is "bad behaviour from non-Australians".

So those people who do actually arrive are banned from working and then opponents recite the old chestnut that these people are here to sponge on the Oz community.

And so we come to the great Coalition policy which deprives even Oz citizens of 6 months of income in order to force them to find work, making 40 applications per week!  Perhaps they could join Hunt's green army on half the basic wage!

Refugees are not allowed to seek work at all!

Nor does anyone cite the cost of protecting our borders or how long such cost will be needed in the future. The USA has been protecting its borders for decades - and still people get through. 

And why is there so much secrecy when even the "smugglers" do not know what is happening? Yet Abbott, the genius of strategy, while in Opposition loudly and publicly counted out the number of boats on a daily basis. 

Strange contradictions here!"One swallow does not a summer make!" A gain of 1%?

Right now there is a "winter of discontent": 52%-48% and still a lot of storms and hail to come!Oh yes, and a Coalition which voted out Malcolm Turnbull. No blood spilt there! And then were other assassinations as well in the past.

So what do we end up with? A Coalition twice defeated in 2 elections, now recycled - and going down the gurgler inside the first year: no settled budget, policies rejected and no chance of reducing debt in sight!Milan and others

The Coalition government was compelled to act or else  look like imposters.

It was Abbott who told us that getting a seat on the Security Council was just a waste of money. Rudd and Gillard were seen as merely grandstanding to even consider getting a seat on the Security Council.

Now Abbott and Bishop are in the limelight in a situation where they can rightly express their abhorrence at what has happened and at the same time biff the commie baddies.

Meanwhile, back in Oz they endeavour to continue  biffing Oz citizens with their wicked "budget" - and with no regrets or remorse.Giles,

Yes, Abbott and Bishop seem to have done the right thing through the Security Council. And so they should (despite their opposition in the past to having Oz on the SC at all).

But the "left wing" press is the least of your worries. Overseas press has been damning in its criticism of so much of Abbott's policies and sorties into far away places.

He seems to rush in where others have been more circumspect. Hence the incredible gaffes and backflips.

Abbott is his own worst enemy and just because he appears to be doing the right thing now with regard to MH17, this one event does not make him a great PM or even the beginnings of one. The Coalition backers in the media are getting a little ahead of themselves, more in hope than certainty.xanell,

the word is "mettle".NIR, where could Hamas go in order to avoid the death of children? One UN school was declared a refuge but that did not stop Israel from bombing it.

It is Israeli propaganda telling us that Hamas uses children as human shields - but it is Israel which sends in the bombs.

Ten thousand houses destroyed, 1800 people killed and others wounded.

Gaza is just 140 square miles, about one third the size of London, population 1.8 million. It is like a shooting range.

And what is the Israeli army fighting against? Penny bombs. While Israel is armed by the USA and includes nuclear weapons.

And why is it happening? Because from the start the Palestinians objected to the loss of land inflicted on them by the decisions of others.

The long term story of the establishment of Israel is not told in our media or our education.

Even our government plays semantic games with its denial of "occupied" territory and its blurring of the situation with the use of "disputed' as a description.

And Muslims, of course, are the pariah of the world.Todd,

You have drawn some very long bows here. Some strange ideas about why the "Left" likes Muslims, about how all Muslims "commoditise" women, about how Labor has the Muslim vote because "there are more Muslim votes than Jewish votes".

What is the percentage of Muslim people in Oz compared to Jewish people in Oz?

And did it ever occur to you that some people might have some sympathy for the Palestinians, not because they are Muslim but because they have been badly treated from the start by the taking of their land, by the embargo on their borders, by the killing of 1800 people plus all those injured, 10 000 houses destroyed, 1.8 million people trapped in an area of 140 square miles.Stephen W S,

You are right to raise the matter of the historical background to the Palestine/Israel conflict. It seems that generally we do not know the story very well in this part of the world. I know I don't.

For example, my old atlas has the present Israel labeled Palestine. 

And when I look for who the Semites are, I find there are quite a few groups which claim to be "semitic, including Jews and Palestinians. So when we use the word "anti-semitic" who are the people being victimised?

And the story of the formation of Israel is interesting and seems to have surprising connections with events in the world today not directly connected with the 
Palestinian/Israeli conflict.

From the Balfour Declaration of 1917 there have been all kinds of political positions taken about the matter of a Jewish Homeland, including poor decisions made by the UN, vacillations by Britain, backflips by the USA...

And violence and terrorism have been part of the dispute. Let us not think that the Palestinians were the only ones involved in terrorism. The British were not above violence and there were the Irgun-Stern-Mossad-Haganah and other groups involved. Arms for Israel came from Czechoslovakia just as they come from the USA today. Ten of thousands of Palestinians were sent into exile.

An interesting parallel with Oz today is the matter of boatloads of Jewish refugees seeking asylum in Palestine. The ship "Exodus1947" for example became the subject of a book and film and a centre of Jewish propaganda. The boat, carrying 4500 refugees was returned to France and then to Germany, with stories of children overboard and maltreatment by officials.

And there were other boats, such as "La Patria", blown up by Haganah in order to keep it in Haifa, and the "Strauma", a cattleboat overloaded with refugees with no visas, denied entry into Istanbul and towed into the Black ea where it sank after an explosion. 

Islands such as Cyprus were use to detain refugees heading for Palestine, even Mauritius.

In the end the Palestinians were steamrolled by the lobbying of other governments by Jewish agents, the force of Zionism, the organised work of terrorists and the vacillations of various governments and the UN. The Palestinians, however, lacked strong and coordinated representation.

So I fail to see how any government or the UN can justify the actions of the Israelis to attack 1.8 million people, killing 1800 of them, as if they are sitting ducks trapped in 140 square miles of land, with no escape.

No wonder there are, nevertheless, people who speak out against the tragedy which has been going on for so long. War is not the solution to a problem which arose from poor diplomatic and political decisions.Generality, the conspiracy hypothesis does not work. The purpose of the Carbon Tax was to put a price on carbon emissions in order to reduce these emissions.

One of the sources of carbon emissions is the burning of coal in order to generate electricity. So electricity with a Carbon Tax cost a little bit more, but not as much as some people claimed.

So we had the Coalition Opposition standing up in Question Time with someone's electricity bill. One such bill was for someone in WA; turned out she had used much more electricity than she had before. Another bill was for a hotel; turned out the hotel had made extensive renovations and extensions, thus using more electricity than they ever had before.

Besides all that, compensation was paid for the cost of the Carbon Tax. The real increase in electricity prices came from energy providers increasing charges

So what do we get now from the Coalition? A Direct Action plan which will not work. Its cost will not appear on your electricity bill, but people will be affected because its cost will be taken from other parts of the budget.

Any gains in reduction of carbon emissions achieved by the DA plan will be wiped out by the emissions  of the projected Carmichael coal mine in Qld.

We cannot afford to keep burning coal. The effects on air quality alone are clear in places such a Beijing, and at Morwell in Vic. But it is more than just a health issue. It is also an economic matter, with the price of carbon falling as the world seeks alternatives.

What are your plans for the future of the planet?Sidneysider, the Carbon Tax component appeared on the electricity bill. That is why one of the bills presented at Question time had the tax component torn off.

Strangely, Abbott has said he would repeal the CT (done as promised) but he will continue to pay compensation for a while. He said what?

So what you are saying now is that there will still be a CT after all but we will not know it? If you mean we will not get much reduction in electricity bills, you are probably right (certainly not a $550 reduction). Are you happy with Abbott's deception?

As for Beijing, There is not a comparison being made between Beijing and Oz cities. But we must admit that the pollution in the air in China is partly as a result of the Chinese burning Oz coal.

Abbott's Direct Action plan is supposed to reduce carbon emissions, but the same reduction would be offset by the emissions of one projected coal mine, the Carmichael in Qld, let alone all the other mines set to rip up the Galilee Basin and ship out through the Great Barrier Reef.

As for Morwell, it was coal burning. End of story.Sidneysaid, not only did the CT reduce some emissions, it also provided an income stream.

The CT component on electricity bills as disclose on the bill. People were compensated for the CT (and Abbott will continue this for a while, despite the loss of income).  

As well, the Ct went towards renewable energy, which Abbott is doing his best to stifle.

Abbott and the COALition are in thrall to king coal!Not True, perhaps you could talk to your employer fiends about why we have goods made overseas now. You say it is the fault of the workers who, you say, want too much for nothing.

Whereas, it is clear that manufacturers have things made overseas with low costs for labour and the maximisation of profits. It is part of globalisation, which is not Labor's fault.

A good example is the demise of the car industry. People found they could buy big-brand overseas cars for less as tariffs were removed.

Countries overseas heavily subsidise their cars industries, but not here in Oz. Many people here will suffer when the car industry and allied industries go under.

As for the NBN, Turnbull's version of the NBN will cost more than Labor's and will not work well. It will cost more for updates and maintenance. 

A great idea around the world, spoilt in Oz by silly Right-wing politics.So, MD, when we turn to the Coalition Direct Action plan to reduce emissions (some 130bn tonnes pa) we learn that such a reduction will be wiped out by the emissions derived from the projected Carmichael coal mine in Qld.

Add to that the emissions from the other coal mines waiting to happen in the Galilee Basin.

So, if anyone is thinking about reductions, any reductions will certainly not come from the Coalition plan.

So why are they even bothering with a Direct Action plan?Generality, this really weird. Do you really think that all the legislation has already been passed? So what is happening in the Senate? Abbott has managed to pass just 7 pieces of legislation in almost a year.

What he has done, of course, is to include some of Labor's legislation in his own policies - a kind of "me too" plan!

In fact, most of the Labor policies will hardly survive this period of Parliament - either repealed or watered down to nothing.

Meanwhile, Abbott is following the IPA Tea Party suite of policies which involves destroying anything Labor has achieved. It is Abbott's legislation which is straight from the USA via the Tea Party - and the IPA here in Oz.

As for "resetting" the Budget and policies, Abbott has no wriggle room because he is beholden to lobbyists and influences outside his control.

Abbott does not have the ticker to do anything other than to biff his way through. We can see the biffer at work in the current Budget. And Hockey just wishes that Abbott had biffed a little harder!And what, alphamikefoxtrot, were those "stupid things" passed by Labor?

The Coalition seems to be having a great deal of trouble passing anything in the Senate.

Does that mean the Coalition legislation is even more "stupid"?There are some questions which we might ask about how Israel came to be a state at all.

Perhaps we should know more about the terrorism of the Irgum and Stern groups and the illegal immigration actions of Mossad and Haganah leading up to the formation of Israel after WW2. We might get a different picture of which is a "terrorist" state.

Hamas gets all the blame for terrorism. The accusation is that Hamas uses citizens as human shields. Yet there are more than one million people in Gaza in an area of 140 square miles (imagine 12 miles x 12 miles). It is hard to find a place to hide. Even so, there was no need to bomb people sleeping in a school after it had been declared many times to be a place of refuge for citizens. Or the killing of 4 boys playing on a beach.

Somehow we have a distorted view of what is happening (and what has happened in the past). But it seems obvious that the Israelis cannot claim genocide used against them in the past as justification to "protect" itself by committing genocide today.

TC, you claim Dunlop is whingeing.

Remember how the Coalition has been whingeing that business is hog-tied with "Red Tape"?

So what do they do? They set about hog-tying business with "Red Tape" application forms. 

When some one points out this anomaly, they cry, "Stop whingeing!"

D'OH!Meanwhile, Zing, the jobs are disappearing and going overseas. Cost of labour is cheaper over there.

So what do we get back here? Reduce the minimum wage. Work for the dole. Work for the Green Army for half the minimum wage. Work for nothing (we already have a huge number working voluntarily).

So what might be the growth industries? Renewable energy, perhaps?

Nah, coal is king! But the mining industry is employing fewer and fewer people - even the trucks need no drivers.

Perhaps top quality education and vocational training is the way to go? Help those who want to work, instead of setting out to punish the minority who cannot work for whatever reason. Nah, scale down TAFE, make user pays the requirement for any education, increase the HECS debt coupled with a high compound interest rate. Education, you see, is a cost instead of an investment.

And all because this is a "small" government. The idea is that it does as little as possible and leaves everything to "market forces".  

Trouble is, the Coalition's marketing of itself is an abject failure. Instead of seeking to help, it sets out to punish - even going so far as to attack with pecuniary fines or the military or the judiciary anyone they perceive to be opposed to their brand."Dole Bludgers"?

And what about the Tax Dodgers? Are they punished?
What was that headline the other day?

Something about how even the facts are biased against the Coalition."Churchill-like", AGB?

Hardly. One swallow does not make a summer. Abbott and Bishop has done no more or less than we would expect from any PM and Foreign Affairs Minister speaking in the Security Council.

Abbott has far to go to be "Churchill-like". To date he has failed badly. Is that a swagger or a stagger?

And Hockey's smoking of a cigar does nothing to raise his claim to Churchillian status.That's right, neil. Still fighting from the Opposition point of view pre-2010. "Oh, look over there...!"

Less than a year into the Coalition as "Government", Labor is well ahead in the polls.

Comparing the Labor list you give with Coalition Ministers, the Coalition Ministers have all made a mess already with their portfolio gaffes far and away above what the Labor Ministers achieved - and the Coalition has to survive another two years - if they can.Of course, Todd, it was Howard's income tax cuts and waste of the mining boom which has led to structural problems with the economy: lack of revenue income.

As for the cost of smoking, the it is like the Carbon Tax. The idea is to stop the choofing of smoke into the air, into people's own lungs and into the lungs of others. Not just a costly habit at the tobacco shop, but expensive medically as well.

So when you say the Left demonised the middle class, are you talking about the cost of cigarettes?It is always amusing to read the comments by journalists who give advice about how to speak.

So we are told "The language of politics is an art form..." and the writer associates herself, apparently, with the poor - "us poor people".

Thus the writer advises Hockey about what he should have said and says it for him in some four sentences which cover everything which should be said about extra tax on fuel. Trouble is, such an explanation is way beyond the three word mantras which Abbott so "expertly repeated" and which eventually became "undisputed 'truths'" apparently. Here is the Howard adviser to the fore. 

Hockey is advised to be "well versed"" in "watertight responses to every question imaginable" so that he can "recite them in his sleep". Well, good luck with that.   

Then we have Shorten, "patronisingly Yoda" (notice the folk-cult reference.)  We are told he has not found appropriate slogans or stuck with some; he is "all over the shop". 

And this writer has more folksie cliches to aim at Shorten: "banging on about", "don't give fig", "brownie points", "kitchen sink denunciations", "bed-time story voice"... We are reminded of the ad hominem criticisms of Gillard and her accent her clothes and "insincere gestures".  

And all this is summed up in the arty contrasting  images of the "repetitious staccato of Pollock" or the "inspiring cadence of Monet".

She said what?

Is this a demonstration that the language of journalism is an art form? Or does it appear here "to be crafted by a zealous marketing intern and not a battalion of astute political operators" (to borrow some phrases)?Absolutely right, Stuffed Olive.

The Coalition cry was about Labor not repealing its Carbon Tax when it said it would - forgetting of course that the Carbon Tax was supposed to be replaced by the ETS, not just repealed. 

The Coalition has famously tried this trick before, aided and abetted by the Coalition propaganda machine.

Eric Abetz has made the same claim when he cited a report from the 1950s that abortion is linked with breast cancer. He claims his denial of that report was omitted, so that it sounded as if he believed the report.

Well, well well...gremlins in the media, hey!

Sir Trent, 

We could widen the argument to other matters, such as Climate Change.

The deniers say such things as climate change has happened before, and I'm no climate change scientist, but if it has happened before, then this is just another occurrence. It's natural and nothing to do with human activity.

But of course, the present situation has never happened before in terms of world population, the extent of the burning of fossil fuels and deforestation.

Then we have the accusation that AGW is simply a matter of belief, ignoring the role of belief in politics, such as belief about abortion.Bulldust, 

Even Bob Carter, AGW denier, in his book "Taxing Air", says CO2 is a powerful greenhouse gas, but so is water vapour and methane ,etc, he says - but don't you worry about that: any warming would be very little, he says, and it does not matter, it won't be catastrophic, he says, because the atmosphere will fix it, and the IPCC is wrong about this and wrong about that etc,he ays, so pumping out CO2 into the atmosphere is pretty well harmless.

And his mate Ian Plimer tells us "king coal" was instrumental in the making of metal spoons and all our modern technology and so we will need it for a few more hundred years yet.

Never mind that as there are alternatives to spoons, so there are alternatives to coal as an energy source.

Yes, coal has created some technical advances, but t what cost to our future? It has been a cheap source of energy and now we must pay the full price.

But, Bulldust, you sound like these guys.John, was there not more than one enquiry and none of them found evidence of a conspiracy to deceive?John Coochy, 

Did it ever occur to you that asking how long it would take for the earth to cool is a silly question?

It goes along with the question about why the Carbon Tax did not reduce the earth's temperature in a year or two.

Somehow we continue to make demands on people -scientists, politicians, etc - which are unreasonable demands - and then wonder why the demands are not met - immediately!o the millions of tonnes of coal we ship overseas does not count? It is just someone else's fault? Nothing to do with us?Yes, Tom1, News Corp is very good at coming to conclusions without science. For them, science does not count.

For them, politics and economics trump science That is why the Coalition has dumped the Science ministry.

It is a pity they are so bad at politics and economics as well.Ah yes, Craig. Atheists are deniers of a different kind.

As for not explaining why there is no rapid increase in the earth's temperature since 1998 despite continual emissions of CO2, ask the IPCC. They did not predict it, but they have explanations.

If you ask climate change deniers, they cannot tell why. And they cannot tell you why the earth's temperature has risen 20 times faster in the last 60 years than at any other period of sustained warming. 

So if the heat and the CO2 keep coming, where is the heat going?

If you think about boiling water (say, at sea level), it boils at 100 degrees, but it does not become hotter as more heat is applied; heat escapes in the steam.

What is a atheist's explanation for the so-called "pause"?So, Peter, why is the Coalition - that "small" government - intervening in reducing emissions of CO2 with its Direct Action plan?

As for "strict rules" governing your profession so strictly - is that Law by any chance? - it is possible you have been hampered in your search for the truth of Climate Change.

What, in fact, does your profession say about Climate Change?Other nations ill follow Abbott's lead, EVAN?

All criticism from other nations so far(except Canada, but of course they have shale oil, just as Oz has "king coal").

Is it true that Hunt and Abbott will include carbon credits in Direct Action?Got rid of the carbon tax?

Now I hear talk of Hunt and Abbott bringing in carbon credits as part of Direct Action!

Who'da thought?And so far Abbott has received considerable criticism from overseas for both of these policies.

Only a dwindling number of people in Oz believe thsi IPA driven nonsense.Sitting back is not the answer. It is like speeding nd saying I will stop speeding when other people stop speeding, and wonder why we get fined - and we are/will be fined by sitting on our hands.
 
In fact, in the past Oz was a leader in renewable energies, but we have sold out to overseas interests. Meanwhile we are very well placed to use solar and thermal means for generating energy.

Now we are making ourselves isolated from the rest of the world.

"King Coal" (as Ian Plimer calls it) is a declining industry. If coal is all the go, think about the effects of Oz coal on the Chinese atmosphere and how upset people were about the effects of our own coal fire at Morwell.

But we do not think about that; it is all about the money.It depends, JohnM, which literature you read.

In the literature I have read, it is claimed that the earth's rise in temperature over the past 60 years is 20 times faster than at any sustained time of temperature rise in the past.

As well, the present level of CO2 in the atmosphere at 380+ ppm is the highest in the past 24 million years.

Of the past 15 years, to are the hottest (2005, 2010) and 2013 was Oz's hottest.

What? No warming?The real scare campaign is the one put about by Ian Plimer that if we do not burn "king coal" we will be driven by the Greens into living in caves.

He writes about how long it took the make metal spoons by smelting with fire, but forgets that people across the world are able to eat with their fingers or with chopsticks.

In other words, there are alternatives.Dave, why blame Labor for the lack of information?

The MSM has failed to explore what a Carbon Tax has done/might do, or an ETS. 

Nor has there been any real questioning of Coalition policy on climate change. Even the Coalition is very quiet about what exactly its Direct Action plan will do - and no one seems to be asking.

So if there is, as some people claim, no climate change, why is the Coalition doing anything at all about climate change?

PS. Even Bob Carter, author of "Taxing Air", believes that CO2 has a powerful effect on the earth's temperature, at least at first, but then goes on to say that the more CO2 there is, the less effect it has! He said what?Robert, why did the Coalition have an ETS as its policy from the early 1990s until Abbott became leader? 

Why did Turnbull side with Rudd in a bipartisan agreement?

What would Turnbull do if he were to become leader (as some people are hoping)?So, who were the "foolish", Lexx?David, it is because I care for the environment and the Carbon tax is gone that I hang my head in shame.

This Coalition "government" is being derided around the world.In the past 60 years the world has warmed "20 times faster than any previous sustained rate of temperature change" (Eggleton, p. 133)

Oz's hottest year was in 2013.

The idea that we cannot do anything about climate change and anyway there is no problem with it is the kind of explanation given by Dr John Christy, University of Alabama, and black sheep of the IPCC flock. As a person associated with right wing think-tanks and an ex-missionary, perhaps he thinks God is in His Heaven and all is right with the world.AJC, you continue to trot out some oft used denier points which do nothing to address the science.

If you think warming science has no consensus, have a look at denier "science"; it is all over the place. Some say there is no connection between CO2 and warming; some say there is but it does not matter; some say it is all to do with underwater lava vents; some say lots of CO2 is good for us; some say we have just moved into a warmer part of the universe; some say it is all just a conspiracy...D'OH!5minutes,

Look at the site "Skeptical Science" and the problems with satellite measurement of temperatures. 

See also reasons why consensus as the language of religion might explain the way skepticism of climate change is often a consensus of the Christian right.Quite right, Alpo. That is why we breathe out the CO2.No warming? The years 2005 and 2010 have been the equally hottest years beyond 1998.

In fact, all your arguing points are rebutted @Skeptical Science. Look for Myths about Climate Change and look at all myths listed, not just the first 10.Mike, no one ever believed that the Carbon Tax would reduce the world temperature by very much in a year. 

Nor is looking out the window and saying 'It's cold out there so there is no warming' very scientific.Data from satellites has followed closely the warming since 1998. 

So there is warming but not necessarily of the whole planet. Oz had its hottest year in 2013.

That there is a steady maintenance of high global warming but not increased overall warming might be explained in ways the IPCC has explained it; eg, absorption of heat in the oceans and melting of ice.

What is the skeptics' explanation for a pausing? 

The correlation between CO2 and warming is clear (although not only CO2 is involved). The level of CO2 in the atmospherenow  is the highest in the past 24 million years. (Eggleton, p 177)

What is the skeptics' explanation for the warming which in the past 60 years has been 20 times faster than any sustained warming in the past? (Eggleton, p.150)5minutes, there is no precise AGW. Nor is there any claim that increase in warming will always accompany increase in CO2, although you will notice that it has up, until the pausing.

The IPCC has given some possible explanations, but you have come up with no explanation at all except to say the IPCC theory is wrong.

What is the skeptics' explanation?John, you need to look further. China has said it does not intend to keep on using coal-fired power stations (more efficient than old ones), but is using them to catch up. China also produces and uses large amounts of solar cells.

Germany is replacing its nuclear power since Fukushima and uses solar. Parts of the USA are using solar and ETSs and regulation to reduce emissions.

Oz exports its emissions in the form of cheap coal - an industry now in decline.The connection between climate change and boat people is quite simple: Ship the coal and tow back the boats to countries overseas. It passes the buck. Small government. Not In My Back Yard, thank you!And yet, Charles, economists say a price on carbon is the best way to reduce emissions in he transition to renewables.
And many countries across the industrialised world are going that way.

What is your solution - or is there no problem to worry about?Ah, there you are, John. You are of course speaking from the Dr John Christy handbook for skeptics.

I took your advice and Googled his name and saw his connection with the IPCC once upon a time and some right-wing think-tanks a well. And I also noticed how his views have changed over time so that while he says there is global warming there is nothing to worry about, no action needed, CO2 has nothing to do with it. 

And I see he had some difficulties with satellite readings of earth temperatures. The website at Skeptical Science gives him a hard time.

I have read Dr Bob Carter's "Taxing Air" and he says some similar things. But of course the two of them are just part of the 3%.

What I like about Eggleton is that he writes clearly with no gobbledygook, whereas the deniers just make assertions and come to conclusions which do not match data. I see that deniers find it hard to put forward a coherent argument and often disagree on what the data  is. They also say things which have long been rebutted.

As for Direct Action, it is a dud plan which will not work, but you criticise it because you do not believe in AGW, which is a belief system of a different kind. That applies to Christy as well.Peter of Melbourne

There is contradiction here.

 On the one hand you criticise a "tax", presumably the Carbon "Tax", saying it is not effective (a statement in itself which is untrue).

Then you say that big polluters should be fined. A Carbon "Tax" or Carbon "Price" is a fine, a disincentive to pump out CO2. Such "taxes and paper schemes" are being taken up across the industrialised world.

Abbott's Direct Action is also a government intervention scheme but it does not "fine" polluters. However, it does propose the planting of trees - by people to be paid at the rate of half the minimum wage!

It has been calculated that if the Direct Action plan were to be implemented so that it would actually reduce Oz CO2 emissions by 5%, it would cost each taxpayer $1300 pa (so much for Abbott's $550 savings) - Richard Dennis and Matt Grudnoff for the Australia Institute, 2011).

The DA plan, like so much Coalition policy, is a fraud
(even Cllive said so.)
Hey, Evan! Pumping out CO2 at an ever increasing rate is not the only way to supply power. The industrialised world is realising this and acting accordingly.

As for selling up and living frugally, yes, some people are doing that. Why they are the "real big polluters" you have not explained.
Evan

It is the rate of temperature change which is disturbing - in just 60 years, 20 times the rate of any increase found in anything like the Mediaeval Warming or exit from the Little Ice Age!

The attempt to try to prove this recent warming has happened before is false.The present level of CO2 in the atmosphere is "unprecedented in at least the past 24 million years".

See Eggleton, "Climate Change", Cambridge UP, 2013, pp. 133, 150, 177)Peter

No warming? None at all?

You must have been very cold in the past 18 years!

What you mean to say is that there has been little increased warming. 

It has been just hot, hot, hot for the past 18 years.

According to Eggleton (2013) p. 150: "As far as palaeontology and geology can discover, temperature change as fast as 1.5 degrees C a century has not happened in at least the past 2 million years."

"At present the world is warming at the rate of 1 degree C in 60 years; that is, 20 times faster than any previous sustained rate of temperature change." (p. 133)

Why do people still persist in saying that China is doing nothing about reducing CO2 emissions?

As for the "hockey stick fiasco", Eggleton (2013) has references which deny the "fiasco" and confirm the truth of the "hockey stick".

Climategate was a lot of hoo-ha over some emails, in which someone asked whether some data should be included It is the job of the IPCC to collect data which makes coherent sense. Keepers of statistics select data, too, and omit "rogue" data. Climategate accusation has been investigated and found to have not been true.

Antarctica is disintegrating in the west, but while it has slightly extended in the east, blown by winds, it is thinner (satellites only see surface area, not volume).

Why do people keep coming up with the same old furphies?
What will be the cost of not having a carbon price?What is amazing is this claim of huge concern about people drowning and yet applying cruel and inhumane ways of dealing with them. 

And the excuse is that not only are they saving these people from drowning, but they are stopping the "people smugglers" from plying their trade. 

So they make the poor vulnerable people the scapegoats while the "people smugglers" are rarely apprehended.

Too hard to catch "people smugglers"; far easier to send the Navy to apprehend tiny boats on the high seas. Then treat then badly in order to stop the boats! 

Stop the boats! It is hard to remember whether Abbott said "turn back the boats" or "tow back the boats" - but clearly any means is possible - because it "works".

Yeah, yeah! So humane, so thoughtful -  so desperate to send these people to any part of the world except Fortress Australia!It is an interesting question, I.Observe, about means and ends. Does the end justify the means?

And what are the means being used by this Government? Why, they have sent the Navy to lurk in the wide ocean and seize any little boats carrying refugees and tow them back to where they came from. And with a threat of drones and F35s still to come.

And why are they doing this? To stop the boats, because they said they would.

And why are they stopping the boats? To save the refugees from drowning and to halt the trade in "people smuggling."

But what else do they do? They lock people away, because, they say, these people are "illegal" - a contested notion.

Meanwhile, the "people smugglers" are looking for gaps and other means. How many "people smugglers" have been caught and punished?

(Interestingly, there has been a documentary about people assisting North Koreans to escape from North Korea - and regarded as heroes for doing so, although their actions are illegal.)

It is amazing that large numbers of people from other places are able to gather - 50 - 150 people - and travel to a waiting boat and sail away - and no one notices?

Instead of punishing the victims (the fleeing refugees), why are we not stopping the "smugglers" at the point of departure? Why is there no alternative but to seek assistance from a "smuggler"?

Why do people pay money to fly into Indonesia and then pay more money (their life savings?) in order to sail in a leaky boat?

This present "Stop the boats" campaign has from early days upset the Indonesian government. On shore processing in Indonesia takes years, yet the Oz government makes decisions on refugee status on the basis of answers to four questions ("enhanced processing").

Otherwise this Sovereign Borders military operation is conducted in secrecy. And why? So the "smugglers" will not know what is happening? Are they serious?

And what is driving this plan? Public approval. And why does the public think like this?

Politically contrived fear and loathing.

As ye sow, so shall ye reap.
What I find frustrating, Freddy, is the fact there has been no diplomatic strategy to help Indonesia prevent boats from leaving its shores. 

What we have instead is a unilateral policy shrouded in secrecy by which the navy lurks around in the ocean between Oz and Indonesia like players in a game of British Bulldog. For what? To tow little boats back to where they came from with no regard for what happens to them after that!

And the Indonesians, what do they think about all this? And with drones in the air still to come! And F35s!

How long can the Govnt keep this going? Another year or two? Five years? Ten Years? The USA Govnt has been patrolling its borders for decades, and still "illegals" get through!

And then we have the embarrassing disaster of Nauru and Manus.

The world is watching with dismay.Atomou, there is no reason why Labor should indulge in public displays of bloodletting There has been enough of that. It is certain they are seeking "improvement",
"circumspection" and policy. But at present the focus is on the Coalition. No need to fluster and bluster. 

The Coalition is imploding. The Budget is a wreck, Abbott is sinking into the mire, the polls are down, the vultures are circling.

As for Labor's "incompetence" and the "economic crisis", this is believed only in Oz. It is all part of the web of deceit perpetrated by the Coalition and its propaganda machine. But their lies are coming back to bite them. Already, in less than a year, there are the dissenters and the doubters in their midst.

See this for a headline: "Abbott trapped in a downward spiral all of his own making." (The Weekend Australian, July 5-6, 2014)
Tony Eggleton in his book "Climate Change" (Cambridge UP, 2013) frequently discusses Earth temperatures. For example:

' The Earth has experienced similar, warmer or cooler times over its vast history. What is special is not temperature, nor even that it is changing. It is the speed of the change that is special. Look back at the rate of warming as the last ice age ended. At its very fastest, the Earth warmed at the rate of 1 degree C every 1000 years.'  (p. 150)

'It is important to appeciate the rate at which the Earth's natural temperature changes occur. From the warmest interglacials to the depth of each ice age takes about 20 000 years, and the world cooled by 5-6 degrees C each time; a rate of about 1 degree C in 4000 years. Warming up after each ice age was quicker: 5 degrees C in 6000 years or 1 degree C in 1000 years. The last warming ended 10 000 years ago and since then the world started to cool again, quite slowly this time, at about 2 degrees C in 10 000 years. At present the world is warming at the rate of 1 degree C in 60 years; that is, 20 times faster than any previous sustained rate of temperature change.' (p. 133) 

But the deniers say that any warming is not the result of the action of human induced emissions of CO2 alone , but the result of increases of "natural" CO2. How that has happened is not explained. As well, there is a search for other sources of heat, such as undersea volcanic vents. All rather flaky explanations.

What is ignored is the fact that never before have there been so many people, so much emission of greenhouse gases, so much deforestation. In other words, denial of how the Greenhouse Effect works and to what extent.   


 












The interesting thing about CO2 in the atmosphere is how it has increased from a pre-industrial level of 280 ppm to the "unprecedented (in at least the past 24 million years) level of 380 ppm". (Eggleton, p. 177).

What has caused this increase in CO2 in the atmosphere and what effect does it have?Coal-powered electricity generators are not the only source of CO2. Besides, we export millions of tonnes o coal to be burnt overseas. Then we blame places such as China for burning it. Meanwhile the Chinese go about with face masks to reduce the medical effects of air pollution. The burning of the Morwell coal mine in Vic. demonstrated the deleterious effects of burning coal.

Eggleton (2013) discusses sources of CO2 (p. 158):

" The mounto CO2 put into the atmosphere from cement production in 2010 at just ove 1.5 billion tonnes.
...There is also significant release of CO2 when land is cleared...
Adding the 32 billion tonnes of CO2 from burning fuel, 1.5 billion tonnes from cement manufacture and another 3.5 billion tonnes from land clearing gives an annual input of human-derived CO2 of 37 billion tonnes..."I notice, Peter, you do not actually spell out what those leftist fads were, are.

Perhaps you could explain how it is that, after decades of alleged leftist fads, poor teachers, poor curriculums, poor everything and union interference, in the year 2000 Oz schools ranked in the top 5 in Literacy, Maths and Science in PISA testing. 

The shift to private schooling is attributed to the notions of leftist fads and union interference, but the real explanation is that with the advent of the double income family in the '70s, the family had moredisposable income and could afford private education.  That was the real fad.It was not so long ago that Dr Donnelly was telling us how bad teachers are, and how they needed to be made more accountable, and should have a detailed "road map" of what to teach and how, and the learning outcomes of students should be tested and made public so that "successful" schools coudl be praised and "failing" schools would be shamed into improvement...

But when Julia Gillard  set about completing the National Curriculum and brought in NAPLAN, the cry was that this was all just Canberra top-down leftist control.

Now Dr Donnelly seems to have discovered what Finnish schools have been saying for years, that teachers can cope with autonomy. So in SA the CEO of Education at the time, Alby Jones, gave out his Freedom and Authority Memorandum decades ago. 

However, the idea that all schools should be made "independent" and therefore "better" is not proven. Most schools have some central office, whether it is public, private, religious or based on some teaching philosophy. As well, schools tied to some funding system, whether state or federal.

To make schools entirely independent could in fact make them more dependent on some other entity, such as business with its own agenda.Chris, your detailed analysis is much appreciated. I have been reading and lamenting the Donnelly view of education since the early 1990s.

His views have been widely criticised and debunked.

Unfortunately his views are published to create controversy (or as The Australian claims, not to tell us what to think, but what to think about - a claim to be taken with salt).

The sad thing is that his negativity becomes part of the political football game and is taken up especially by those who are least involved in education.

Unfortunately your analysis is not widely told and the Donnelly version is believed because it appears in the papers (so must be true, mustn't it?)Alpo, in the '60s only about 5% of secondary students went on to Tertiary education. The figure now is about 30%.

So it is reasonable to expect that some of the 30% are not of the same quality as the 5%, just as some of the 5% were not the same as the high-fliers in the 5%.

It seems a wonderful thing that some 30% of students have chance to learn in a Tertiary institution. Once upon a time many students left by the age of 14 and some went on to Matriculate in Year 11 and only very few went on to Year 12.Chipinga, Rudd's dumping of the CT also urged the adoption of an ETS. That ETS is in the legislation and due to begin from July next year.

The reason, of course, why Shorten did not want to dump the CT now is because Abbott has no intention of bringing in an ETS. Palmer is now trying to force Abbott into adopting an inert ETS, one conditional upon other countries adopting an ETS. 

But what if all the countries nominated by Palmer were to adopt an ETS soon? That would really cause the Coalition a problem - having to adopt a policy they once held and now reject. Even The Australian newspaper - after years of anti-climate Change rhetoric - is claiming that it has wanted an ETS all along.

As for the CT destroying the economy and jobs, the reasons are other than the influence of the CT. And people losing jobs are not just union members (remember that we are told how union membership is very low). When the car industry closes down, it is not the CT which is the cause.

 The CT has been successful in reducing emissions. It has not cost taxpayers $550 pa. There is no guarantee energy prices will reduce. The Direct Action plan (now dead?) would have cost taxpayers (but the cost would not have appeared on the energy bill). 

What we have seen in recent days is how self-interest rules. Palmer and the coal industry win, while politics across the board is smashed by the Palmer wrecking ball.

And while we are at it, ask ourselves what Gore was doing there supporting a scrambled policy which delays action on climate change."...convincing the Oz public of the need for meaningful reform is all but impossible...politicians have stopped trying to communicate with the public."

The reason why it was so difficult for Labor to communicate with the public was because they would actually be communicating with a contrary press and radio media which dominated the discussion. Remember how Rudd was criticised for holding press conferences on Suday on the church steps?

And remember how Gillard was accused of lying about the Carbon "Tax", but her addendum to "no CT" was that she would put a price on carbon - conveniently forgotten.

So it is wrong to say, as here, that Gillard tried to sneak a Carbon Tax through the 2010 election and then blamed the Greens for the CT. She wanted to have an ETS.

And the Greens clearly regarded the CT as the most effective and cheapest "meaningful reform", as so many economists do, to deal with emissions at least for a while, changing to an ETS.

Remember, the Coalition had an ETS as policy from the 1990s until Abbott took over.

Even The Australian newspaper is saying it supported an ETS all along, although it is hard to believe after so many stories debunking Climate Change.

Abbott has achieved power through 3 word mantras lacking in details. Now that the details are coming out - and not all the policies are completed even now - we see what lack of consultation achieves - a dog's breakfast of a  Budget! It looks, for example. as if the Direct Action plan is dead - and we still do not know what it was exactly!$550? Where does that number come from? I thought taxpayers were compensated for the Carbon Tax. Or do taxpayers still pay $550 pa after compensation?

So without a Carbon Tax, that will be one revenue stream lost.

Will the Coalition still be paying compensation after the Carbon Tax has gone?

And with the dud Direct Action plan out of the way, that will be a bill taxpayers will not have to pay.

What will Greg Hunt have to do?

The whole Climate Change matter has become a nightmare for the Coalition. The  lost Carbon Tax plan is in the long run the cheapest and most efficient way to reduce emissions.

All this talk reducing the cost of living! What will the costs be without effective action?AJC, nowhere is there any proof that nearly all the increase in CO2 over the past century was from natural sources. Perhaps you are confusing the numbers with the amount of CO2 which has existed for a long, long time in maintaining a stable global temperature. The increase in CO2 over the past 200 years is another matter.

 Are you suggesting that the burning of huge amounts of fossil fuels and the deforestation of vast areas of land and the rapid increase in human population has no effect on the amount of CO2 in the atmosphere?

You need to consider how there has been a 1 degree increase in global warming over the past 60 years, far more rapid than any natural increase in warming in the past.CO2 and Global Warming

Look at Eggleton ("Global Warming", Cambridge UP, 2013):

"...atmospheric CO2 gradually rose during the C20th from a pre-industrial figure of 280 ppm to the unprecedented (in at least the past 24 million years) levels of 380 ppm." (p. 177)

Where does your "major global warming event" fit into this 24 million year time?

Eggleton gives some figures re human activity causing increases in CO2:

"Through clearing and burning (vegetation), we added another 3.5 billion tonnes of CO2.
Adding the 32 billion tonnes of CO2 from burning fuel, 1.5 billion tonnes more from cement manufacturing and another 3.5 billion tonnes from land clearing gives an annual input of human of human-derived CO2 of 37 billion tonnes. How does that amount compare with the annual increase in atmosphere CO2,which in 2010 stood at 2.4 ppm (by volume) of the atmosphere? That apparently small amount multiplies to 18 billion tonnes... (p. 158)[He hen goes on to discuss the carbon cycle]
"...A lesson we have learned from the ice ages is that, with a little push from the sun, CO2 rose from 180 ppm to 280 ppm while the global temperature rose by 6 degrees C. That was enough to melt the ice sheets...Over the C20h CO2 has risen from 280 to 380 ppm. Now it is our turn to see what global warming can do." (p. 164)

Perhaps that puts your "major warming event" into perspective. Circumstance in the C20th were not exactly the same as in 200 000 years ago. No burning fossil fuels, no land clearing, no great human population, no making of cement etc back then.

As for making decisions about Global warming by merely looking at thermal activity alone...AJC, Eggleton discusses this "anomaly" of temperature rise preceding CO2 rise by pointing out that a temperature rise creates a release 0f CO2 which in turn, as Greenhouse gas, creates more temperature rise - and so. (Climate Change", p.137-138 and also in response to Bob Carter's struggle with that concept - see Eggleton p. 180)

With regard to CO2 molecules in the atmosphere. it is a matter of different Carbon isotopes (C12, C13) which can indicate sources of CO2 and which are measurable.










Hey, do not laugh. 

All the great climate scientists at The Australian newspaper are now saying that an ETS was what they wanted all along 

- despite publishing streams of anti-climate change stories 

and ignoring Gillard's promise to put a price on carbon 

and supporting Abbott who stepped aside from the Coalition's long-held ETS policy (remember why Turnbull was dumped) 

and warring with Palmer.

The changes are certainly blowing in the wind.Shorten's approach to the Coalition Budget in his Reply speech was far from "naive". He nailed it for what it is - as he later said, it is a bag of stinking fish.

Nor did he have to create a scare campaign as has been suggested in these posts; the faults and contradiction of the grab from the poor while at the same time spending madly has not been lost on those most affected.

Add to that the daft policies across the board, and the Coalition look far from competent. Their whole program has been based on lies and misinformation. They have been quickly found out - in nine months!Already the iCAC investigation has revealed sins on both side of politics. A Commission into Union corruption will reveal collusion between unions and business.

Perhaps we could also have Commissions into the Thomson and Slipper trials, the Abbott slush fund vs Hanson and the Bishop slush fund in WA...

We could well learn from the Coalition how to attack opponents in the courts.So your argument is hat Climate Change hs happened before. Yes, it has, but not the same as it is happening now.

There have never been 7bn+ people on the planet at one time, so much deforestation or such a high level of CO2 (for at least the past 24 million years). (see Eggleton, 2013, p.177)

As well, the warming is at the rate of 1 degree centigrade in 60 years; ie, 20 time faster than any previous sustained rate of temperature change (Eggleton, p. 133)

Please look at how the Greenhouse Effect works.

What data or explanation does your favourite Climate Change expert offer?

@EvilPundit

There is the old saying that the media does not tell you what to think, but what to think about.

Looking at this article, we some considerable criticism of the ALP. Gillard caught in the headlights, for example. And the ALP being 'self absorbed and clueless'.

As a result of this ALP dysfunction, Abbott has been able to be the 'champion of the ALP agenda' (ie, promise to do the same as Labor).

But then of course we see Abbott reneging on so much of what he promised and setting about destroying anything the ALP achieved.

Furthermore, we need to look at this paragraph:

"It's here too that Kelly argues we have our greatest problem, that the effectiveness of a disciplined opposition in combination with the rapid fire nitpicking of modern media diminishes the capacity of any government to push forward with anything even vaguely resembling a challenging reform agenda."

Notice that Green is discussing what Kelly has written, yet comments here in this forum want to blame Green for what Kelly says. So where is the bias?

But notice what Kelly says about constant negativity (from Abbott), plus nitpicking from the media, is that in the end it destroys faith in the political system.

It is a wonderful irony that Kelly says this about the media, given that Kelly belongs to the Murdoch stable, the most nitpicking media of all.

So when Murdoch news readers see an opinion not expressed in the Murdoch news, there is the immediate cry of Bias! And a tendency not to read closely.@The Other John

Ted said nothing about other people paying down the debt for him. He was simply pointing out that the present government policies for reducing spending are unfair. Plenty of evidence for that unfairness has been published.

To cry out about socialism 101 is entirely unwarranted here. But if we really wanted to talk about welfare or entitlement, we could spend some time discussing the tax concessions, subsidies and privileges given to the big end of town.

As for "unlimited resources" being handed out to the ABC ("behemoth"?) without "adequate oversight or accountability"(?), that is just a rant. We all know which newspapers spread that story about.

And Jonathan Green? In this post he is most often saying what Paul Kelly has written. You know, that journalist from The Australian, who quite surprisingly has been writing about negativity and nitpicking.In fact, Bill, it seems that places like Spain and Greece are having to wind back their austerity programs because they are getting into further difficulties.

Contrast that austerity approach with Labor's spending, which achieved a AAA rating, Treasurer of the Year and 3rd lowest debt in the developed world.

Contrast also the Coalition approach which hits hardest the poorest and most disadvantaged in our society. The figures which demonstrate this unfairness have been published.

So it is a matter of how we pay off debt - and at the moment the policy is unfair. The poor and disadvantaged and those who work are further supporting by present policies those "winners" who already have tax concessions, subsidies and special privileges.

If the poor are further suppressed and retail spending is reduced, the "winners" could well find themselves to be "losers".Certainly, John, we must set about addressing the debt. But the "crisis"is not now; it is still to come - perhaps in 10 years if nothing changes.

It is HOW we address the debt which is important, and at the moment the Coalition is floundering.John, your assertions about how much criticism has been made in the past and by whom is questionable.

For example, there have been numerous articles written by IPA members criticising Labor on The Drum.

 And on ABC TV for a long time we had Peter Reith blasting Labor at every opportunity. Even Richo criticised his former colleagues.Gordon, you will b bored by the repetition, but three agencies did give  Oz Triple A ratings for economic management and Swan was judged Treasurer of the Year. 

So we come to the "terrible economic mess" propaganda spread about by the Coalition. The reality is that Oz has the 3rd lowest debt in the developed world.

So then you will point to some measures taken to pump money into the economy early in the GFC, such as Pink Batts and School Halls. These are now assets, but the costs were white-anted by greedy entrepreneurial businesses fly-by-nighters bent on maximising profits.

The present Coalition has developed a budget which creates austerity for the poor and disadvantaged while at the same time spending up big on hardware such as submarines, Planes which do not fly and a tin-and-string NBN which will cost more in maintenance and updating. Add also the stubborn spruiking of coal as the panacea for world policy by shipping coal at falling prices and in danger of destroying the iconic Great Barrier Reef. And a parental leave scheme costing $20bn    ...

Show us where the economic management is in this Budget.Yes, the hysteria is all in the media, mainly the Murdoch press. It is trying to stir up anxiety about the presence of Russian boats in the southern hemisphere.

Of course the Murdoch press could very well claim it is all a bit of fun and a laugh, a kind of spoof of Cold War politics from decades ago. The conservative approach is to dwell in the past; you know, keep thrashing past conflicts, enemies, hated politicians - the old peer in the rear-view mirror approach. 

And it is a great way to distract the mobile vulgus away from thinking about the Abbott blunders and the dud Budget and espoused Direct Action plan which has yet to materialise.

Murdoch is not really trying to protect Abbott, their chosen man, from the Red Russkies, but is trying to protect him from too much scrutiny of Abbott here in Oz. What better way than to bring on the bogey man.

Meanwhile, with regard to the shooting down of a plane, there have been no witnesses claiming to have seen a missile fired, and there is the matter of Ukrainian fighters seen trailing the commercial plane. 

It is just too easy to blame Russia - a knee jerk reaction of habit - and a good way to stir the pot.What is concerning, Peter, is the fact that there are those who will find their way through the minutiae of red tape to secure advantage for themselves or their masters. We see how that works with tax havens.

Clearly the 10 Commandments is not sufficient to govern all aspects of behaviour. But imagine how rentseekers would thrive even more in a set of few regulations.

Over time it has been necessary to make more legislation or modify according to changing circumstances. For example, the use of drones or flying cars.

The present Coalition aspires to be a small government intent on reducing regulation. Yet its Direct Action plan is a scheme demanding a highly regulatory situation to command attention to a whole range of activities allegedly designed to decrease carbon emissions. 

Such a situation provides huge gaps to be exploited and will cost plenty, especially in its suddenly vaunted modus operandi of using taxpayers' money to pay those who reduce emissions. Never mind that the Coalition roundly criticised Labor for spending money to protect jobs in the GFC, yet even now have shown no viable plan to reduce debt and have in fact increased it.

How this present government will cope with the job losses from the loss of the car and allied industries is a horror show in the making. What kinds of regulation, or lack of it, will they need to survive the impending crisis?You are right there, Oaktree. Some more than others.

Let us not think that Murdoch does not continue to support the present Coalition without expecting some kickback for him. He has even been known to support the other side of politics if it suits him.

But if the kickbacks do not materialise, he is ruthless in his attack. After all, running a newspaper empire across the world makes a lot of money and creates a lot of clout. He expects to have some influence and then be rewarded for his lobbying.  

So with all aspirational and entrepreneurial go-getters. The peasants must be content with crumbs from the table (which, as espoused in the recent budget, i not much).TNBB, 

It is a funny thing that non-scientists are not allowed by you to discuss Climate Change, but non-scientists are allowed to deny Climate Change.

I suspect that even if someone came up with some statistics to show that some natural events have become more extreme, your fall back position would be that these events have nothing to do with climate change.

In effect, such a denial would be saying that climate has nothing to do with natural events with large scale effects.

An example of statistics revealing an interesting perspective is one concerning fires in the Sydney region. There are those who say there have always been fires in the Sydney region going back a long time.

When the statistics of the number of fires and the area of land burnt by these fires are collated, there are seen to be a number of fires of almost back yard proportions in early days compared with the more recent fires which have burnt out hundreds of hectares of land.

What is the explanation for these recent more "extreme" and destructive fires?

We have warming of the oceans and we know that cyclones form over the oceans with hot air rising.

We are seeing winds changing in parts of the world such as the Poles, so that some winds from the Arctic dip further south and others come up from further south with effects of unusual cooling and heating.

In the Antarctic, West A. in breaking up and East A. is spreading slightly, but overall there is a loss of ice.

So we are told that the amount of CO2 in the atmosphere is the highest in 800 000 years. CO2 is one of the Greenhouse gases. Methane is now escaping from the Tundra - another Greenhouse gas.

In SE Oz, we no longer get winter rain from westerlies, but instead get winds and rain from NW Oz. 

Climate Change is having effects. Just how "extreme" remains to be seen, but the trend are there.Cathy, this comment says that what is important is what happens in the sphere of the speaker. It is about individualism. That is, I am the most important person - along with those near to me. It is not about what is important for the country, and even less about what is important for the world.

So the argument goes that we must not concern ourselves with Climate Change, but should concentrate on unemployment. Others say we need to reduce poverty.

What is not addressed is the question of what will happen to employment and poverty if we do not address Climate Change.

At the moment too many people are hiding their heads in the sand, with comments about there being a lack of consensus, or there is no proof carbon is the problem, or the IPCC scientists are paid to say what they say (whereas, presumably, the denialists are not paid to deny), or there is a pause therefore there is no warming....

All of these red herrings are totally without scientific support.And of course, Ursus Augustus, the most self-interested of all are those who think any talk of any human induced Climate Change is just a myth. This kind of self-interested people are those who think we can just keep on doing what we have been doing for the past couple of hundred years in particular; viz., plundering the planet and polluting the atmosphere.

These people will try to tell us that having 7bn+ people on the  planet, pouring millions of tonnes of CO2 into the atmosphere, cutting down of forests world-wide...none of this has any effect on anything.

They ignore the 1 degree rise in the Earth's temperature in the past 60 years - 20 times faster than at any previous rate of temperature rise.

They ignore the rise in CO2 levels in the past 200 years from 280ppm to close to 400ppm, a greater level than at any time in the past 24 million years - because these people deny that CO2 is involved in a Greenhouse Gas effect.   

Because AGW goes against the self-interest of these people, they will deny anything said by the IPPC or any of their supporters. Nor can they offer any real science to oppose the IPPC, instead cherry-picking non-issues and talking of conspiracies.

So they must be very upset that the Coalition is even claiming to do anything about AGW, even though Direct Action is just a token mopping up exercise which will take up to $4bn to achieve a 5% reduction in omissions and would struggle to achieve more.

Such people are shrill in their accusations against IPPC, but are happy to accept (?) the fraud of Direct Action?So far Turnbull has shown no sign of being able to implement sensible improvements. You can only hope.Be careful, Alfie. There is no repair of the 'great big debt' for Shorten to support. And the Opposition is not obliged to support everything put up by the Coalition, especially when so much of what the Coalition puts up is so ill-conceived and so badly espoused. 

Nor is the "tow back the boats' policy a very enlightened policy when it sets out to punish the refugees in order to stop the 'people smugglers'. Why did no one else think of such a policy before? Was it seen a just too mean and military? And how long will it last? And what will it cost?Is it even legal? For people who talk about 'humane 'action, it looks rather hypocritical.

The idea of a price on carbon is the direction much of the world is heading towards. It is seen as the cheapest and most effective way to reduce carbon emissions. A support for the Coalition's 'Direct Action' is the foolish move; it just won't work.Mick, no point in trying to distract readers with past history. It is Abbott and his duplicitous 'team' which is in power now. And things are not going well.

Even Uncle Rupert is upset about security laws which could see journalists in gaol for informing the public of certain matters.

There have been many critics of these security laws, saying we already have enough security laws to cover contingencies around terrorist activities.

Others would add that there is too much secrecy already.

Then we have Palmer deciding not to support changes re tertiary education.

And there are real problems arising from the flagging of a rise in GST. Barnett in WA is already off-side.

Overseas Hockey was ambushed in the Hard Talk program about what the Coalition is doing about Climate Change. He had no clue.

In fact, daily the Coalition sound so stupid, especially when they talk about "adult', 'mature', 'considered', 'refined'... They are far from any of that.

Talk about 'poisoned pills'? The Coalition is poisoning itself with its ideological policies which do not achieve anything of a sustainable kind. It is happy just to swing the wrecking ball through everything with no thought for the consequences.

And those 'poisoned pills' from Labor you write about, Abbott was happy to carry  them into the election, only to disband them or dismember them after the election. So much for trust. The Coalition are being hoist on their own petard.Noah's Ark,

it seems that Paula Mathewson is telling us that there is no point making lists of the faults of politicians because what they are doing is politics -  and in politics, apparently, anything goes.

Are we to assume, then, that what Abbott and his team are doing is fine because they are in the business of keeping power, having gained it by all kinds of means.

At present any close attention to the deeds of the Coalition is being diverted by the interest in Ebola and the Islam State.

If a Labor person points out the faults of the Coalition, they are immediately distracted by a list of the faults of Labor in the past.

What is not acknowledged is the fact that the faults pointed our about Labor are small in number - and some of them described as faults/lies are not so at all.

Whereas the lies, flipflops, deceptions, falsehoods and gaffes of the Coalition are numerous. There are places where such lists can be found, but there are people who do not want to know about them - because, as Paula points out, such lists do not suit their politics.

But as more Coalition policies come to fruition, it will be found that the Coalition policies have no foundation. The Coalition has won power on false foundations of negativity, of swinging the wrecking ball through everything. Things which are claimed as successes, such as no price on carbon, towing back boats, replacing things (NBN, Gonski) with cheap imitations... are unsustainable.

The Coalition brand of politics is unsustainable. No wonder they hate the word.

 

What if - and this is just a bit of fantasizing - what if someone, one of the younger generation, such as Lachie, actually lifted the eyes and actually saw what this current government is doing - especially something which affects the Murdoch Empire? And not only that, but he  actually complained, however belatedly.

Imagine, too, how this could be the thin edge of the wedge. Remember how the attack on Rudd began with a story about him swearing at a flight attendant about the lack of sandwiches. And then it moved to the pile of papers on Rudd's desk...and so on.

Rudd's peccadilloes in those early years when he was riding high in the polls are nothing compared to the gaffes, lies, deceptions, stupidity of pretty well the whole bunch of ministers in the Coalition government.

Besides the alleged attack on freedom of speech, there is the plain fact that around the world the present Abbott government is an object of ridicule as it makes itself a pariah in the wider world. Remember the shock horror for hockey when their Climate Change non-policy was vigorously attacked . It seems that the Coalition collective idiocy is better recognised overseas than here.

Until now. How long can Rupert continue to support such a raggle-taggle bunch? He has to consider the reputation of his own empire in hard times. How long can he afford to support Abbott?

Next thing - just imagine - Rupert the kingmaker will be attacking the Pretender. And Abbott will be gone in a trice. Oh joy!Stuffed Olive,
we need to have more than John Hewson and Bill Shorten speaking up about what is happening now in Oz. Every person should be fired up about the Coalition with its retreat into the past and denial of the present. 

We have the Coalition contemplating buying submarines from Japan despite a promise that the submarines would be built in SA.

Premier Napthine complains about the loss of jobs from a renewable energy company in Vic.

The Coalition is creating huge uncertainty in industry in Oz, not just in renewable energy but in other industries as well. The coal industry is being treated with upbeat comments about its role in the economy at a time when commodity prices are falling. And we see in China the effects of burning coal; we have had something of that with the Morwell fire. We see problems with fracking in important agricultural regions and the mapping of 90% of Gippsland for mining leases.

Our car industry and allied industries will be torn apart in a couple of years with huge loss of jobs.

And why? For ideological reasons. The belief that a growing economy will drip feed down to all levels of society. A belief that all members of society can lift themselves up by their own bootlaces: the old failed C19th Self Help hypothesis. And the belief that whether Climate Change exists or not, we just have to adapt and keep on doing what we have always done.

Why is it that the whole country seems to be lying back without complaint, seemingly compliant with this farce based on lies and ideological deception? The Lucky Country is in danger of collapse under this ideological onslaught.Peter, Tony Eggleton, in his book on Climate Change (Cambridge UP, 2013) has some things to say about your claims. 

He says (p 57): "or the past 10 000 years the atmosphere has held a constant amount of CO2. round 280 ppm...

Now it is about 380+ ppm, more than in the past 24 million years... (p 177)

'Perhaps the source (of CO2) is volcanic; volcanoes release a lot of CO2, 300 million tonnes a year on average. The current annual increase in CO2 in the atmosphere is about10 billion tonnes  a year. For volcanoes to be responsible they would have to have been erupting at about 30 times their normal rate.' (p 155)

What does your favorite Climate Change scientist say about the origins of CO2?

The Other John,

The Earth's average temperature has risen one degree in the past 60 years - 20 times faster than at any 'previous sustained rate of temperature  change'. (Eggleton, p 133)

The presence of CO2 in the atmosphere at 380 ppm is the highest in the past 24 million years. (Eggleton, p 177)

There is a connection,as there is between smoking and cancer.

What does your favorite Climate Change scientist say about this?There are those who complain about a Left bias in the ABC. So here we get a list of Coalition policies explained in a paragraph each of two or three sentences and supposed to explain the inadequacies of the Labor political stance.

Anyone who thinks that Labor simply aligns itself with Coalition policy but is wrong about its stance on Ebola, is just not paying attention.

More attention has been paid here to the matter of security. For example, new laws - when we already had sufficient laws to deal with terrorism. 

The boats policy of the USA kind - whereby Abbott can claim himself to be a champion of security by punishing refugees in order to deter "people smugglers" - an expensive demonstration of power using navy vessels to seize little fishing boats. When Abbott was questioned about "towing back" the boats before the election he insisted on saying "turn back" the boats. Why did no one here in Oz come up with the idea of employing the navy at considerable cost and for how long to treat people so appallingly?

Labor's price on carbon is a far cry from the Coalition's "Direct Action" plan. Abbott has put himself at odds with world trend, made even worse with his mantra of coal as desirable cheap energy. The author here seems to endorse the Coalition approach based on some dodgy denial of the science.

Nor is there any value in attacking Rudd. It is Abbott who is PM. He cannot hide behind some lapdog following of the USA against Putin, nor in supporting again the USA which is seeking after its own interests disguised as "humanitarian".

We have not forgotten Abbott's mishandling of so much in just a year - and with the Budget still unfinished he looks far from being a hero.What amuses me, Peter, is the way Abbott tells us Ebola is too dangerous for the government to get involved (except for sending money), but intervening in Iraq is fine by him, even at a cost of $500 million per year!Pete, we all remember how Peter Slipper was vilified for months and years for alleged misogyny and harassment for a handful of comments in private emails which were made public in what was described by one judge as a conspiracy to bring down the government.

It is amazing how opinions are formed according to ideological points of view. And it was not the Lefties who pilloried Slipper. It was his former colleagues who vehemently support 'freedom of speech' - for some, but not for others.That the 'historical' Jesus existed is suggested by historical documents. But which 'historical' Jesus are we discussing?

One Jesus was crucified as a trouble maker. Another was not just crucified, but 'was taken up into heaven, and sat down at the right hand of God' (Mark 16:19). Is Mark's gospel also an historical document which tells us more about that historical Jesus?

John 21:25 tells us: But there were many other things which Jesus did; were every one of them to be written, I suppose that the world itself could not contain the books that would be written.'

Certainly all those 'other things which Jesus did' have not been recorded, but many books have been written in the name of Christianity and, as we are told here, there are many questions which could be asked.

The question of Jesus' existence as a human is the least questionable aspect of Christianity.

That the ABC is biased Left has yet to be proven. It is an accusation made by readers of the Murdoch press because when they read or view beyond the confines of the Murdoch press or Fox news, they are dismayed to find that there are opinions out there which do not coincide with their own.

Looking at The Drum, however, there can be seen representatives of the Right appearing regularly; eg, the IPA, the Sydney Institute, The Australian...

Such diverse opinion does not appear to that extent in the Murdoch press. In fact, when the Murdoch press sets out to destroy the opinions opposing their own, they will attack and vilify the antagonists daily, weekly, monthly... and will remember that opponent for years. It is not an edifying spectacle; more like a series of "shirt fronts".The reference to Julia Gillard stands out - as if she was the only PM ever to be involved in the National Curriculum. The National Curriculum and school funding were two things Howard never completed satisfactorily.

Real efforts at producing a framework for a National Curriculum were begun in the 1980s. Each state tried to produce its own framework. This fragmentation made it hard for the states to agree on a common National Curriculum. States were reluctant to surrender any part of their own frameworks.

Yet the was a cry in some sections of the media for a National Curriculum to cater for those students who move from one state to another. When Gillard set about what Howard had not completed, suddenly the idea of a National Curriculum was dropped as being too "top down" centralist dictatorship by a Labor government! Here we have now a Coalition attempt at a NC.

As well, there was criticism of anything which was not "traditional", even to the naming of subjects. The Study of Society and Environment was seen as suspect because it had the word 'Study' in its title, it combined elements of Geography, History and Civics and was regarded by some as a Left wing conspiracy to present Oz in a bad light. So we had arguments about 'Black Armband' History,  too much emphasis on 'Greenies', 'dumbing down',  Left wing ideologyetc.

So even an attempt to integrate aspects of related subjects was criticised. Yet Science could integrate Physics, Chemistry, Biology, Botany...and Maths could integrate Arithmetic, Algebra, Calculus... Why? Because these latter subjects are "traditional" and less likely to be politicised.

Over-arching themes, such as Key Competencies emphasising aspects of learning processes, were treated with suspicion, as being intrusive new subjects crowding out the curriculum. So now, with Asia, Aboriginality and sustainability - as if these things have nothing to do with 'traditional subjects'.

And everywhere the demand for 'back to basics'. There are those who would say we have never done anything but 'basics'.

So Mr Berg needs to look at the IPA statement about its goals and see if there is anything in them which is controversial, subversive, un-traditional, and universally accepted. Is it a document designed to please everybody?Quite simply, one off, if it was as simple as writing a page about each subject, it would have been done by now - and the controversy would still be raging about the details. There are too many factions and vested interests in education to get complete agreement about the what and the how a you have pointed out.

So then we would get as many curricula as states, and if we say to schools har they can write their own curricula based on the state curriculum we would have a plethora of curricula.

Remember the big argument, now abandoned, about how students moving from state to state would be disadvantaged?Howard knew that his SES funding model was flawed but never got around to fixing it.

Now you say Gonski is SES relabeled! And you say that schools are now asking for the flawed SES model to be implemented? A scary proposition!

I know you will disagree, but I tend to believe what Chris Bonnor and Jane Caro say in their book "The Stupid Country: How Australia is dismantling public education."


