Not nuts at all, in my opinion. Quite like the Cuban crisis in that Putin has managed to stare Obama and Europe down. They are far weaker militarily, but it is the Russian held belief that the West will never act, that allows Putin to do as he pleases. 

The West has created the situation by giving Putin (and any observer for that matter) a sense of immunity from military action. The West needs to hold it's ground, sooner rather than later. The entire region would be better off if Russia thought there was even a remote chance of military intervention. That is, Putin will keep "expanding his buffer zones" until there comes a point where there is a reasonable expectation of possible military intervention. Personally, I think if the West had just deployed forces on stand-by into Crimea, Russia would never have annexed it. No conflict needed - just a manifest preparedness to do so.

The problem with appeasement is that if aggression is met with timidity, the aggression will always escalate. Furthermore, any threats (as we hope that the threat is enough to avoid actual conflict) become increasingly less effective, thereby increasing the probability that actual conflict WILL be required to show that said threats are not hollow. For example, the West warned Russia not to annex Crimea, Russia did it anyway and the West did nothing. It is only logical that further warnings from the West will be increasingly dismissed out of hand. I just hope that Putin's ambition can still be quelled by amassing Western troops in Ukraine or other posturing, rather than the bleaker scenario of having to engage Russia militarily.Break-ins occur for one reason and one reason only. Money to get extremely expensive drugs. They do not do it for food. So, unless you propose to give those who would break into your house thousands of dollars per week, then you will not prevent said break-ins. Removal of prohibition and regulated supply of drugs that are actually extremely cheap to produce in terms of inputs, would be the only solution to that problem. And society is a long way off that. The US leads the World in this regard, but even there, two states have only legalised marijuana which is not addictive enough to induce the desperate state where one turns to burglary to support a habit. Indeed, our increasing excise on tobacco is slowly adding another burglary inducing burden to addicts. It's not about the $1 serve of baked beans that will stave off hunger for food, its about the $100 serve of prohibited drugs needed to stave off the hunger for drugs.Budget cuts necessitated by the ALP/Greens deliberate profligacy that they knew the coalition would be left to deal with. They knew it would mean tough budgets from the coalition, which would, in turn, see the ALP/Greens back in power in 2016. The plan is based on the assumption that the electorate are not too bright, but I dare say, they are probably right. I hope I am wrong, but recent polling suggests the plan worked and therefore the assumption held true. Politically speaking, it was a brilliant from the ALP/Greens. Let's hope, however, for the sake of generations to come, that the electorate can work out that what was borrowed yesterday, needs to be paid back today with a little interest, or tomorrow with a lot of interest.One dead young man versus more than a thousand men, women and CHILDREN. Not even in the same ball park, I'm afraid.Tell me, sdrawkcaB, how one can be a Leftist Libertarian. That has to be the most ridiculous statement I have read on here, and defames Libertarians. How can you reconcile the collectivism that is the centrepiece of Leftist thought, yet call yourself even "somewhat" Libertarian? And you talk of being "developed to the point where we are a unified whole." Mate, you are a Leftist, I'll give you that. A Libertarian that  advocates for the individual to be wholly subsumed by the collective? Not so much. Such a mythical creature really doesn't exist. I think what you mean is that generally you are a collectivist that would seek to see the "unified whole" given primacy over any individual, but would like the freedom to do as you please, where your desires do not fit the collective's. I would call that a hypocritical Collectivist, definitely not a Libertarian. A Libertarian, as the rule rather than the exception, gives primacy to individual rights over the collective. Not just when it suits their individual ends.Well said, Neville Chamberlain. What bad could possibly come of sitting back and letting Putin annex more land for Russia by invading smaller countries that cannot defend themselves? 

I think war is a big fat waste of money, but I believe in lancing the boil before the infection gets far worse. Appeasement only emboldens the warmongers, only opinion.The Health groups know full well the addictive nature of tobacco. Therefore, they must know that price hikes just make addicts poorer which actually puts them in a worse place from which to begin the hard task of quitting. They know that studies show that external circumstances (like poverty) make overcoming addiction all the more difficult. It is the Health groups that should hang their heads in shame.Because those in the Health industry enjoy a bottle or two of Grange. It really is that simple.Agreed. But forcing addicts into poverty through profiteering means they are LESS likely to be able to successfully quit on thei own accord.Exactly. If you buy the outrageous suggestion that price hikes are designed to decrease consumptuion of a highly addictive substance, then illicit drug dealers should be given high honours. People like the author cheer inccrease to, say, $30 a pack (under the last Labor hike) for 25 "hits". Well, what about meth dealers that charge $100 for one hit? If Labor are doing good work with tobacco, then meth dealers deserve are decidedly saintly.

What is that? Most think meth dealers only charge extortionate prices as their clientele are hooked and they are just greedy people taking advantage of generally low SES people? My point exactly. Education id the only things that reduces smoking rates. Hence, why meth use is increasing exponentially year on year despite beign FAR more expensive than even ciggies will be after the full implementation of Labor's last gouge (25% every year for five years, starting last year). mAnd just to be clear, for a low SES tobacco addict, Labor's last hit, will cost them around $7 PER DAY. Kind of makes the Medicare co-payment seem pretty small in comparison.They OFFER a product which people demand. They do not kill anyone. Do you blame Big Alcohol for car accidents, domestic violence, cancer, cirrhosis etc. If you want to blame Big Tobacco, I hope you apportion the same amount of blame on Big Alcohol.I am a corporate and social libertarian.

All these taxes do is make people who indulge in an unhealthy habit, artificially more impoverished. So not only are they less healthy, they are less wealthy. There is no health benefit. But, as I have always said, if I want to do something bad for me, that is MY business. Should we lock people up for unprotected sex? Should we ban foods that are not good for us? Should we ban alcohol? Taxing is just banning for the poor, by the way. If you want to ban (tax) tobacco, then from an intellectual perspective, why would you leave a tub of double cream alone. I would like the stats on who lives longer, one who is mornidly obese or one who has the occassional cigarette.

I know I am very much alone as a Libertarian, but so many of the inequities in society would be solved tomorrow if we removed ALL forms of prohibition - that includes prohibition through regressive taxes.

Why can't people just let others live as they please. If my neighbour wants to inject Motor Oil into his eyeballs, I say go for it - as long as it is done in the privacy of his/her own property and it is paid for (ex any "sin taxes) by the user. What business is it of mine to tell another adult (that I see as an equal) what to do with their body or mind?

Crime would disappear overnight as all the substances subject to prohibition are all inherently very cheap to produce (ex "sin taxes" or black market price gouging). So the Heroin addict would spend $5 a day, not $500. He/she would not have to burgal or prostitute themselves etc. If they overdose, then that is their business, but they should still have access to medical treatment because, if you take your moral glasses off, someone overdosing on Heroin is simply misadventure (and would be made a LOT less likely if the Heroin was regulated). By the way, I also support the right of others in society to persuade others not to indulge in damaging behaviour like drinking alcohol, I just do not support their ability to ban those substances, either outright or through taxation.


So, while I do not recommend smoking, I would defend tobacco suppliers right to sate the demand of their freely consenting customers. As I do not see it as any of my business. I don't expect anyone to agree with me, but I thought I would let you know a Liberarian perspective. It is NOT "survival of the fittest". It is more like "each to their own" if you want to use slogans. I would actually argue that prohibition through taxation is more "survival of the fittest" as it means that only the better off in society are able to indulge without the behaviour ruining their lives. Hence why Phillip Seymour Hoffman caught you all by surprise, whereas the addicts down in St Kilda have a totally different experience.I agree that littering should not be allowed. What of beer cans, chip packets and even vomit? They, like cig give butts, should not be strewn over public property or the property of others. I do not see the link to tobacco prohibition, though. Wouldn't it be just as bad to find packaging from healthy products littered all over your property. For sample, littering used needles, whether used for insulin or heroin create the same issue to my mind. Your problem is with littering, not tobacco.Agreed, George.

I do not like any immigration from Muslim cultures. The ideals of Islam are just not something I want to see in Australia. I am not racist, but I am very "culturalist". Islam makes cattle out of women - property to be traded among men, whipped and killed if they misbehave. Of course, this hatred of women does not always manifest itself in violence, but the inferiority of women is a central tenet of Islam.

The Left only like Islam because it involves almost no individual rights or freedoms, even for men. It is a repulsive culture and the fact that NSW Labor have finally admitted what we all knew (Carr clearly has a problem with Jews), only shows how Islamic immigration hurts Australia. Why does Labor now support Palestine over Israel? Simple. There are more Muslim votes than Jewsih votes. I am an Atheist, but I have no problem with Judaism. From what I can see, the culture does not involve the systematic commoditisation of women. Easy choice for me. 

Labor NSW has now sewn up the Islamic vote which will, sadly enough, hand them power in NSW. The scary part is the Libs will not be far behind as both parties these days seem to be "value free zones" prepared to do whatever it takes to garner votes. Except, of course, the Federal Libs that just seem to be hell bent on getting the entire community offside, but I digress.

Remember, when we let people in from oppressive cultures in big enough numbers, our democracy means that politicians will  forced to form policy around their wishes if they want to attract their votes. Gillard had the audacity to call Australian men misogynists when her party now supports Islam over Judaism. The hypocrisy is astounding. One cannot support Islam and women's rights - they are entirely mutually exclusive.No Mark, both comments are equally racist. Just that the German in your example would be violently racist (if the beating occurred) which is infinitely more deplorable than the Jew being only verbally racist. But before the violence occurred, I would say both we're equally racist.

Those who distinguish between words like "whitie" and "darkie" are the ones who are racist. The assumption from those people is that darkie is offensive but whitie is not. This cannot be true UNLESS one believes there is something inherently offensive about being a darkie (hence the offence caused) but being a whitie is not inherently offensive (hence the claims that no offence could be taken by a white person being called a "whitie"). As many disagree with me, can anyone see a problem with my logic, as I honestly cannot.Unfortunately, it all comes back to political correctness.

We have created a situation where, due to bad legislation like the RDA, we cannot "profile" some Muslim who has been in Syria for the past couple of years. So we cannot seek a warrant to collect data on a Muslim or any other minority.  To do so, would offend the RDA. Therefore, this Government has decided to spy on their employers - ie us. Every single one of us - all in the name of not discriminating against any particular group. I note that we were able to do so with David Hicks, funnily enough - I guess it is the same as the coincidence that no caucasian has ever been successful in a claim under the RDA. Maybe white people are the only people who discrimante against others based on their ethnicity.

But the Left are not allowed to be up in arms on this. Remember when we caught Hicks. The Left screamed blue murder for his "unfair" treatment - even though he clearly trained with terrorists. Now he is a free (and rather rich) man. Certainly no deterrent there.

I would rather see stronger action against perpetrators that would avoid the need to spy equally on everyone. For example, just spy on those who travel to or have connections with terrorist hotspots/groups. Just like I believe ALL violent and sex offenders should be microchipped for the rest of their lives. You see, you have to take one of two routes - either real, significant punishment for perpetrators (weed out the bad apples) or effectively treat everyone as a potential terrorist (treat all apples with DDT) while being overtly soft on those when that actually do offend.

The same goes with paedophiles. They are given manifestly inadequate sentences when caught, however I invite people to look at male teacher numbers (they are falling off a cliff) to see that it has been the choice of society instead to assume all males are paedophiles and life is made so unbearable for males working with children, the innocent just move on, while of course the paedophiles are more than happy to play the game.

This is no different. We do not want to compromise the rights of of the guilty, so the rights of the innocent are attacked instead. Shame on the Abbott Government as, again, Big Brother/nanny state policies go against their purported ethos. If this were Labor/Greens policy it would be just as damaging to average Australians, but at least it does not offend their collectivist "State/Community over the Individual" ethos. 

So in 2016 we will have a realistic choice between collectivism by stealth (Libs) or overt collectivism (Labor/Greens). That ios because the only party with any respect for individuals is the Liberal Democratic Party and nobody votes for them...except me.Yes, Greg, but with terrorist attacks, it is not "after the fact" evidence that usually forms the basis of warrants that is required. Indeed, many attacks involve the suicide of the perpetrator so prosecution after the fact is redundant. Some guy that has been fighting in Syria for the last 3 years will not, allow, form the grounds for issuing a warrant. That is why the Government needs to go beyond the warrant process. I get that. However, there is no justification for monitoring EVERYONE and every piece of data regardless of circumstances.

On the RDA, a case went before our courts where a white woman was called a "white %$@#" by an indigenous woman. Needless to say, the case was dismissed. Whereas Bolt's comments breached the RDA. If that is the operation in practice, the Act needs to go. Imagine if Bolt used the comments above that were found not to breach the RDA? Hahaha. I reckon there'd be calls from the Left to bring back capital punishment. Some rugby commentator recently lost his job for using the word "darkie." Do you honestly think that if someone called a Caucasian a "whitey" that they would their job? 

Dont' get me wrong, any racism is ugly, but there should not be one set of laws for one group of people and another set for everone else. That is how the RDA operates in the real world. Just because it's preamble does not say that "this Act only applies to disrimination engaged in by Caucasians" does not mean it is applied evenly by the judiciary.Mike, when you say crack down on pirates, what you mean is the taxpayer should bear the costs of enforcement (and the much greater cost of lost productivity due to widespread cessation of internet access) that up until now should fairly be borne by the copyright holder and, if applicable, the infringer should a court in a civil matter decide to award costs to the successful plaintiff.

I have no problem with Copyright Law as it stands. However, it does not allow for people to be summarily cut off the internet service of a THIRD PARTY (ie ISP). It should be a civil matter between Johnny Downloader and (in the overly used example of GoT) HBO. This move will cost billions, mostly from the harm done to small businesses when they are summarily cut off  their internet because their son or daughter might have downloaded a file that is BELIEVED to be subject to copyright (no trial, no rules of evidence like a normal civil matter). You may say they desrerve it. That's fine. But everyone loses when GDP falls as the Government gets less revenue so you just might find higher taxes (or harder spending cuts) to compensate for such a revenue reduction.

All this, just to allow copyright holders to avoid the costs of enforcing their rights like they do at the moment and have done for decades, if not centuries. More Big Government policies from these Abbott Liberals who when we voted for them, were lead to believe they did not support Big Government.

And guess what, Tony? All those Australians who prefer Big Government, as many on here do, are not going to vote Liberal anyway. And all those who prefer Small Government and support individualism will not vote for the Liberals now either. Politically naive and economically reckless. Sums up many an Abbott policy in my opinion.Agreed, but please limit your crtiticism to these current Abbott Liberals. Many in the party still respect freedom and individual rights. Many in the party would find no place for Government in Copyright Law enforcement. Yes, the Abbott Liberals have entirely abandoned such tenets, but I still hold out hope that the Party can be wrested back from these traitors to the Liberal ideology. Remember, Abbott only won by a single vote from Turnbull.

What worries me, is that Abbott has assassinated Turnbull's character in the eyes of the public by making him sell this anti-Liberal policy that flies in the face of freedom and individualism, thus destroying Turnbull's popularity and effectively eliminating the chance of a leadership change before another term of Labor and the Greens. Let's just hope that Labor and the Greens only get one term when they get back in at the next election and then the Libs will have a chance to get back to their roots and dispense with this unnatural corporate/religious autocratic Leadership Team.

The one good thing that will come from this ISP move is that we will see the Libs primary vote free fall into the high 20s and this may provide a chance for the REAL Liberals to take back control of the party. Otherwise, we are in for at least another term of Labor/Greens madness. My suggestion is that in the meantime, decent Liberals should join me in voting for the Liberal Democrats - tthe strongest defenders of freedom and individual rights. The only hard part is the preferences...Very true, rattan.

I had not thought of this cost. The cost of this policy just keeps going up and up.Maybe some extreme parts of the GOP.

Chris Christie, for example, seems far more reasonable and in touch than Brandis and he is part of the GOP.

However, let me point out that the GOP and even more so the Tea Party, would never even entertain such drastic Government intervention and in civil matters. At least not in this way.

That is what is so peculiar about htis Government. No one ideology can explain their behaviour. It is more like a "worst of both Worlds" scenario. We have Orwellian Big Government policies like this (normally Left policy) and then you have drastic changes to Unemployment Benefits that even the hard right would raise their eyebrows at. It's just bad wherever you turn. And then look at the Labor/Greens opposition who would see devastation to our mining and agricultural industries. Talk about a rock and a hard place.You are dead right about the VPN thing, Matty. 

But where the cost comes in is when you not so tech savvy small business owner (or a member of his/her household) downloads a file from one of the blacklisted sites and they are summarily cut off the internet. This will damage a business and it's taxable income (no emails, no website access, cannot do payroll or pay bills online etc). Less taxable income for any given business means less revenue for the Government which means higher taxes or lower spending in other areas.

I do not illegslly download, however, I will set up a VPN for privacy reasons as the Government will be collecting meta data on every Australian citizen in order to determine whether anyone is visiting a Government approved website or not. As I said with Labor's Interent Filter, will those banned websites include opposing political parties? As much as I despise the Greens, I still do not want the AFP kicking the door in of some poor soul who visited their website. I believe in freedom of choice. There will be NO transparency with this as to what are Government approved websites and what are not. 

There are currently remedies for those believe their copyright has been infringed. Just ask Men at Work. The difference is that at the moment there is no Government mandated punishment involved. So which is right? Hundreds of years of Law or this authoritarian Government?Hear, hear.

It seems like an Orwellian reality is all but guaranteed.

Labor/Greens wanted an Internet Filter. The Libs want to collect meta data and cut off your interent access if you visit sites of which the Government does not approve.

Sad times for freedom. Freedom had a pretty good run though. Unfortunately it is technology that is going to prove to be the ultimate yoke that none of us will be able shake off - unless you go "off the grid" but I hear that they now want to eliminate cash which means going off the grid will also soon be impossible.

Some of us guitly of idealism saw IT as a liberating technology. How wrong we were.I get why short supply and high demand lead to higher prices. What I don't get is why demand for Melbourne property is so bouyant. I find the place quite nasty. By far the nastiest city in Australia that I have been to. That, and the guy sitting next to you on the tram is more than likely a Greens voter according to statistics. Maybe that is why the city feels so unwelcoming. And it is not about size (population) or the pace of life as Sydney is superior by both measures. I find the place entirely depressing. Maybe the supply is restricted to a greater extent in greater Melbourne due to the influence of the Greens? That's all I can think of. Greens voters, bad weather, nasty and unfriendly culture. The only thing the place has going for it is a few events held there and they could be moved to nicer cities. Melbourne property will face a massive correction soon. 

My prediction for highest percentage growth over the next 10 years is Tassie. Yes, Labor/Greens made sure one cannot get a job there, but I reckon as baby boomers retire, Tassie presents an undervalued opportunity. The place is lovely, the people are lovely, so if you don't need a job, I reckon it is a no-brainer for retirees. If relative values are where they are now in 30 (oh sorry) 35 years, then I would retire there in a heart beat.Glenda, I paid for an overpriced house.

Renting brings with it many impediments to one's freedom. That is why I no longer could stand renting. No pets (including fish). No smoking (even outside) having to move at the drop of a hat because your Landlord sold or now just no longer wants to rent the property out. Then there is the bi-annual rent inspection that is akin to a cell search in prison.

My decision had nothing to do financial prudence and everything about lifestyle. By the way, when I did the sums there was not a great deal of difference between mortgage and renting a similar place. Also, we got to have everything we wanted as we built. Yes, it is around 50km from the excitement that is the Perth CBD (sarcasm), but I have a big, lovely house. Yes, I MIGHT find a similar house, but how long would I be allowed to rent it? 

Yes, if interest rates go up significantly, the difference between rent and mortgage may widen, however, rents would probably go up as Landlords's costs go up with intrerest rate increases.As to the title of this article, I say, Appeasement didn't work in the 1930's and it sure as hell won't work now.

With respect, academics just do not get it. Of course, life would be far better if they were correct. It would be nice if violence was never required. Unfortunately, it is required some of the time to subdue those who would do massive damage if unchecked. I am sure in Sir Ivor's World, everything can be discussed over a a nice cognac or two. This is just not the reality throughout the World. I do not want to invoke Godwin's Law, but how many lives would have been saved if we had not allowed Hitler to take Czechoslavakia or if we had not let Germany blatantly violate Versaille by rearming while dim witted Western diplomats were placated by assurances from Hitler? Nobody wanted war with Germany, so Germany grew stronger while at the same time grew emboldened as they knew the West would do nothing. We are all just lucky Hitler was unhinged and took on more than he could deal with against the advice of many of his generals. If not for such an early Barbarossa, I think the World would be a much, much darker place today.

The longer we let Putin et al, think they are untouchable, the longer they will act as though they are. Simple. Personally, I do not think speeches and condemnation from their enemies really make Putin lose any sleep. Actually, EMPTY words strengthen his image both domestically and on the World stage. Is Obama really the one with the most power when Putin doesn't pay any attention to him? Means is not the only measure of power - willingness to act forms part of the equation - and, therefore, on balance, Putin is the most powerful person in the World today, despite Russia spending far less on their military than the US.

I love Obama for what he has tried to do domestically, but his fear of Putin is palpable to any observer and ony makes the risk of serious conflicts higher as rogue groups/nations know that they can pretty much act with impunity, short of an attack on US soil or other large Western country. Invading Ukraine was permitted by the West. 

For all his faults, if George Dubya was still in power, I reckon the Crimea would still be Ukrainian territory. It would not have meant a war between Russia and the US, but just the presence of some US resolve would have made Putin think twice.I would have thought if Adam Smith was PM, he would be of the opinion that breach of copyright is a civil matter and that plaintiffs can seek all manner of remedies for the damage they may have suffered. NOT the government mandating PUNISHMENT of one side or the other to a civil dispute. Do you see the Government, say, penalising the loser in a Patent dispute between Apple and Samsung? Of course not. Government interference in consumer level copyright cases is almost the opposite of pure capitalism. Effectively, the current Government (therefore the taxpayer) will be bearing the costs for corporations to pursue civil outcomes. Remember, it will cost billions. Not just the monitoring costs on the ISP that will be passed on to Internet users. The biggest costs will be lost productivity and general chaotic disruption to many in the community. The guy who runs a business and relies on websites, emails to make a quid, makes a lot less when he is cut off the internet for downloading a movie last weekend. Which means less GDP, therefore less revenue back to the taxpayer. So you will be affected whether you download stuff or not.Let's be clear, it is NOT stealing. Stealing is a criminal offence. Breach of copyright, especially when only limited to consumption, rather than commercial redistribution, is a civil matter that gives rise to a civil remedy whereby the copyright holder can be awarded fair compensation - which for one movie would either be the rental cost - $6 - or the cost to buy the movie - $30. 

Turnbull should and indeed DOES know this as he was a lawyer and quite a successful one at that. Of course, without any inherent protections beyond the whim of parliament, we can be punished through legislation for acts or omissions that were not necessarily considered crimes. However, to define unauthorised downloading of copyright material for personal consumption as stealing is not only over the top, it is flat out wrong in a technical sense. That is, the new draconian legislation will not be in any Criminal Code or other penal statute. It will, rather, be a regulation on ISPs to monitor everything their clients do and then cut them off the service if the consumer happens to go to a "black-listed" site. It is entirely the same as Labor's draconian Internet Filter. 

At least Labor have a collectivist Big Government bent, their filter was nothing that surprised me too much. But even Labor realised it was politcal suicide and pulled back. But is undemocratic for the Libs to be promoting 24/7 monitoring of internet users. Remember, for a Filter to know you are not visiting the Pirate Bay, they have to know the sites you do in fact visit. Why is it worse for the Libs? Because they have always championed individual rights. So, when one casts a vote for the Libs, one would not expect Big Brother policies that entail 24/7 monitoring of 90% of the Australian population. One can expect budget cuts...even the draconian Unemployment Benefits reform is not out of character - it is just extreme and entirely counter-productive. This ISP move is akin to Abetz introduce "no ticket, no start" legislation.

Personally, I think this is more about Abbott eliminating the Turnbull threat in the light of appalling polls. As Annabel point out, he has the job of selling this policy which will be detested by 90% of the population and will be welcomed by...umm...a few massive corporations that are copyright holders. Even I have less faith in him now as he is calling it stealing when he knows full well the Law of Copyright. But technicalities aside, trying to defend the Big Brother approach after lambasting Labor for doing the same thing, will leave Turnbull with public approval comparable to the rest of Cabinet.

More evidence that you cannot call Abbott a fool. My money is on Abbott not proceeding after a good 6 months of public mutiny against Mal. Leadership issue solved. Abbott's a lot of things, but he ain't stupid.This Government is NOT ideological. Disastrous? Yep. Uncaring? Absolutley. Politically illiterate? Without a doubt. But they are not following any established ideology that has previously been known to man. A classic liberal would NOT punish people where there is no financial benefit and therefore reduction in taxes. Secondly, they want to compel ISPs to summarily cut people off the Internet if they believe (no trial, no presumption of innocence etc) have downloaded a file illegally. This is NOT in the classic liberal hand book. As someone who defines himself as a Libertarian, which is fairly close to classic liberal ideology, I can tell you this Government is NOT being ideological. They are something I cannot quite explain. I would try to describe them as corporate, religious zealots and/or Authoritarian. But neither of these by themselves. For example, authoritarians would not try to reduce regulation. The only theme that runs true for this Government is that their policy seems to always be pro-church and pro-very large business. 

Take their new ISP idea. They are basically against businesses Aussies own (Telstra, iinet etc) in favour of the major copyright orders (Sony, Time Warner, News Limited etc). But they trample all over civil liberties at the same time. And as for political stupidity, who would try to punish allegedly illegal downloads when all the data says so many normal Aussies do it. Generally, due to our digital material costing at least twice what it does in a civilised country like the US. 

Come on, Malcolm. When the next polls are out, no member who wants to keep his/her seat at the next election (if the damage is not already done) will want Abbott and his current Cabinet. It is not ideology, it is more sadism. Surely, the cooler heads in the party know that effectively scrapping the dole (as no human can meet the new obligations and if they could they would probably be employed as a super hero (30 hrs per week PLUS 40 job apps that have to take. On average at least an hour if one is going  toAbsolutely agree, Dean.

To be fair to the ALP/Greens coalition, the Greens have never supported the opening of one mine or the granting of one mining lease. Some of their more honest supporters would admit to being againt mining - like most environmental groups. Then you have the less honest supporters that make out the Greens are not against mining, they just want a larger share for the Government - which necessarily means less for the private individuals who actually provide the capital to enable these projects. The Greens always have and always will do everything in their power to reduce mining in Australia. 

I would also like to point out that while the nationality of shareholders is irrelevant, Australians can choose to buy shares in in these miners, but they obviously choose not to. Maybe it is because we know that the Greens have joined the ALP and chances are, therefore, that the Greens will be shaping policy in this area half the time moving forward (if we assume an equal number of ALP/Greens governments as Liberal/National Governments). I would not touch Australian miners with a 10 foot pole, if current polling is to be believed. Just as the miners look like getting a bit of a break, it looks like ALP/Greens will be in power in around 2 years. There will be no NEW investment in mining in this country while ALP policy is held hostage by the Greens. 

Abbott can say we are open for business all he wants, but when business sees the Greens buttering up for another couple of terms come 2016, they think twice - and so they should. Then we have the Libs announcing that any of us could be made to work for the dole at a moment?s notice. The move does not even impress the likes of me as it does not even save any money, rather it costs more due to administration and micro-managing cases now anyone could be made homeless, say, if their employer becomes insolvent etc. How many of us can say we will never be out of a job again? The Libs new policy will mean nobody can rest easy, unless you have no debt and a MASSIVE stack of cash. The fact is, there are effectively now no unemployment benefits (if one has to work 30 hours a week for about $250pw) yet my taxes have not come down one iota in order to me to squirrel money away to pay my mortgage if I ever find myself out of work (even through no fault of my own). And unlike WorkChoices, this will adversely affect everyone except the independently wealthy. Labor will make enough mileage out of it for at least two, maybe three terms. Which means we get Greens policy retarding the two things we are/were good at, mining and agriculture. 

So we have political morons (the Libs) or economic vandals (ALP/Greens) to choose from come 2016. Dark days ahead, I?m afraid.
Devil's in the detail, mate. It is the bit about "meets stringent environmental standards" that is the catch all that stops mining. Could one not argue that digging a hole in the ground and taking the natural earth away, even if replaced, would not meet "stringent standards." I have no problem if you are against mining virgin deposits as I am against logging old growth forests. It just shows how dishonest they are as they won't admit to being against mining. Rather they use weasel words in their PR material and it seems to work, at least it did on you.Toc, generally we source our materials from nature. At the moment we cannot produce steel, glass etc with power from renewables alone. So when they say they do not want to use fossilised sunlight, that precludes a high material standard of living at current levels of technology. And how to you reconcile the wish to minimise the use of fossil fuels and the move to block an increase in the excise of petrol, a widely used fossil fuel?

Again, you have been sucked in by the Greens PR material, while ignoring what they actually do. It is like Liberal PR material saying they believe in helping people help themselves? Sounds good, doesn't it? I look beyond the PR and see that statement actually means "we will remove all saftey nets." If you think that any party's PR material will cast them in anything but the best light, think again.OK, Clarke. The Greens and ALP hate each other - but always vote with each other - except for one or two issues. Like when the Greens opposed an ETS, but have the hide to say they want action on climate change. The Greens, and the Greens alone, have stopped action on climate change at every turn. Blocked the ETS. Now they want to block Direct Action (along with Labor) so there will be no action on climate change. No action is better than some action? Then there's the fuel excise that the Greens opposed - and surprise, surprise Labor opposed it too. But if actually believe Labor and the Greens are enemies, then you entitled to that opinion. I respectfully disagree.You have off-shored your labour most likely due to excessive Union demands. How could you possibly incur $20 accounting costs per transaction when the GST, from an accounting perspective, is far, far less complicated than the raft of taxes it replaced. In fact, most accounting software assumes a GST/VAT component. As opposed toi peculiar taaxes like Payroll Tax that is not contemplated by default in most accounting software.

I am not a Liberal cheerleader as I am entirely opposed to a variety of their new measures that inflict pain on all Australians without saving a penny. It seems you may be a Labor cheerleader though, as you are the furst person I have ever heard claim the GST has high compliance costs. It doesn't.True, Harry.

But it is the Greens agenda that will kill mining. Yes, the ALP let it happen, but this anti-mining and general anti-business sentiment could not be seen during the Hawke-Keating years. What is different between the Labor of yesteryear and the Labor of today is the Greens and the metasticising of Greens policy into ALP policy. Now business needs to look at Greens policy before making investment decisions. For example, they will be subject to Greens policy in just two short years. THAT is what will lead to investment falling off a cliff, along with our living standards.The MRRT is an investment killer. Mining investment is risky and "super profits" need to be on offer to attract capital to such a risky venture. Would you back the roughie if your odds were capped at the same price as the favourite? Of course not. Therefore, why would you invest in some junior mining company, rather than, say, the banks? Your risking of losing is far higher, but should you win, your bonus goes to the government.

But I do agree with you on the current Liberals. The latest move to make everyone work 30 hours a week for the dole, no matter what, will not save a penny (actually it will cost far more in administration ect). But it will mean even if, like me, you have contributed hundreds of thousands of dollars in income tax alone during your life, you will be made to pick up rubbish on the side of the road for 30 hours a week, then apply for 40 jobs, just to get your $250 pw. Sorry, Abbott, you've even lost me with that craziness. All that, without an income tax cut so that we can start saving now that unemployment benefits have effectively been scrapped. Seriously, apart from the independently wealthy, who would vote for that? Malcolm, gear up, because in about 2 weeks we will see polls that will REQUIRE Hockey and Abbott to stand aside. The Libs do not want to do the whole "facless men" thing, but seriously Abbott and Hockey need to be stopped. This latest move does not even save money - it just means everyone has to live in fear of losing everything at a moment's notice. Malcolm will be PM by Christmas - that is my prediction.For certain projects. If no new projects are started within the next 20 years, then there will be few "in production" at that time. Ideally, there is a balance between start-up phase, production and shut down phase of projects. Unfortunately, the MRRT affects investments therefore there will be less in the start up phase in the coming years. Of course, a mine will not close after all the sunk cost. As I have said many times before, the State (the owner of the minerals) gets a ruturn through royalties. The Feds should only get the other taxes that should not discriminate between industries.

How does the country benefit from mining under the system prior to the MRRT? Well, firstly, there is all the income tax (company and personal) that the Feds reap. Then, of course, there are the GST impacts. The more WA gets from royalties, the less GST WA receives. Therefore, the "nation" does benefit from a successful WA mine in many ways. What benefits are derived from a mine that does not go ahead? The poorer States would see less GST if mining in WA did not exist or activity was reduced.No, we don't need more revenue. We need to cut spending. Where? NDIS, Gonski, Foreign Aid. Just to name a few.

Yes, this Government stinks, but that is because they are not cutting spending. And it NOT ideological. What they are doing is below liberal ideology. Ideology would say cut spending. Fine. Their moves to block the dole for 6 months while making everyone work for the dole is NOT a cut in spending - as they have (at a far higher cost) put money aside for hardship, which pretty much ALL people who find themselves out of work in the coming 2 years will qualify for. So, plenty of personal pain, worry and anguish for the vast majority of Australians, but NO SAVINGS. PPL? Don't even go there. They removed the CT, that's about it. But if you ask me if I would rather pay the extra $20 pw for CT (please no more questions re that, I go through a lot of electricity as I have 3 kids and a wife at home - sue me) rather than the fear of losing my job meaning homelessness and picking up rubbish on the side of the road. All this with no income tax cuts? What? No this Government is not about ideology. I don't know what they are about, but it ain't any ideology I have read about. They are certainly not neo-libs. They would be proposing REAL savings and real tax cuts. So far, I have seen neither.But by your logic, it means that the "allowable return" is determined not by the market, but instead by some ATO bureaucrat. What should the allowable return be? I would have thought that it should be determined on a project by project basis according to the relative risks of  particular project. I would have thought basic economics covered the whole risk and return relationship. Giving different treatment to mining profits will of course affect investment. As if we made mining profits tax free, then that would distort the market by attracting  more investment. How about this idea? ALL companies pay 30% of their taxable incomes. Wait a minute...Come on, mate. The Greens will never be on board with this Government. I know the Greens are ignorant, but surely they understand that ALL Government revenue goes into Consolidated Revenue and is doled out from there. It is like when they say speeding fines will go into road safety or tobacco excise wil go into anti-smoking initiatives. If you want to believe them, that is fine. But just know this. All taxes go into Consolidated Revenue. The NDIS levy just goes into Consolidated Revenue and then claims come out of Consolidated Revenue. There is no ring fencing of the funds. The Greens know this. They simply will not agree to any Government policy...no matter what.Agreed. I cannot support this Government due to certain other policies, however Hockey is right. This tax will be progressive in its operation-even though it will not go through because the Greens/Labor do not support it. If you have a large car, then the rego alone is a couple of hundred a year or more - those people will pay more as they go through more petrol. It is such a small amount though,thatI don't know what people are concerned about. Around 40c per week. Yet nobody cares about the NDIS levy that will cost me and many other single income families a coup,e of thousand a year or around $40 per wee. That is a hundred times more than the fuel excise levy. This is despite my income being required to support 4 other people. Yet, some single guy earning less, but supporting only himself gets off with far less. Also, I note an article recent article outlining how Australian surgeons are refusing to treat smokers...do you really think the NDIS will cover a smoker in say, 10 years. Remember, Medicare used to cover smokers only a few years ago. How things change. In 10-20 years only Saints will be covered by this colossal waste of money. I know it's bipartisan, but that doesn't make it right. It will become fault based like Medicare. Anyway, it is here to stay and will, hopefully, help to push up unemployment and push interest rates down. Taking money off consumers is a great way to reduce private demand in the economy.

The problem is with the media coverage, not communication skills. All over the (so-called Liberal sympathising) Murdoch press was the line "poor people don't drive." This was a complete misrepresentation of what Hockey said. Media is all over this 40 cents a week and yet they give the NDIS levy a free ride and I have read very few front pages highlighting this Government's desire to monitor your every move online. The problem is that while we focus on such minutiae, the important issues that have profound impacts on our lives are left to alp through without proper scrutiny. 

For the record, I will be voting informally in 2016 as I will put LDP 1, but honestly cannot place a number 2 on the ballot in good conscience.Oh, I get it. Like tobacco excise. The obvious difference being that it is accepted by almost everyone that poor people actually smoke more Nd therefore operates to be far be regressive than a tax on petrol. Just as a flat tax on holidays to Monaco would be technically regressive but would operate to make those who holiday in Monaco pay more and thereby be progressive in operation. The fuel excise is like that. The ABS stats show that higher income earners will pay more of this tax. They also show that poor people will pay far more, in absolute terms (far more again in relative terms), in tobacco excise than high income earners. Labor/greens increased the excise by around $9 per pack to be introduced over 5 years ending in 2017. Champions of the down-trodden, that they are.One more time for the those who seek to mislead. Based on 40L per week, it will be an extra 40 CENTS per week, or, $1.60 per month. Not $40 per month. $40 per week is what I get to pay for the NDIS. Why do people even care about this excise issue as the Greens/Labor have said no. And we all know, Clive will not agree to any tax increases, just decreases while not agreeing to any cutting in spending, such is the extent of his populism. And as the Greens will just say no to anything this Government does (like opposing a tax increase on fossil fuels) all policies are basically left to Labor. 

Agree this Government is out of touch, but Hockey was right on this one.Tall poppy syndrome has helped kill off what you call egalitarianism. For years, the Left has demonised the middle class. More specifically, their policies conspire to prevent people bettering themselves financially. Remember, the truly rich do not pay much tax due to trusts etc. Rather, it is the middle class that pay the most tax - you know those filthy rich people on $75k pa. That is what led to the now famous Howard's Battlers deserting Labor in droves. He gave income tax cuts to the middle class. I find that for myself recently, after tax increase after tax increase, I now have a much more "harsh" view of others. But the Left are just as guilty. They are happy for smokers to suck up an extremely regressive tax because "why should they pay for others' health care problems." Now, look at the stats. When Gillard/Plibersek increased tobacco excise over 5 years it comes to around $9 per pack. And one cannot argue that poor people smoke less, again I refer you to statistics that in fact show that poor people are MORE likely to smoke. So, going on a packet a day habit, this will cost out poorest $63 per week, around 160 times what the fuel excise would have cost. You cannot support discriminatory taxes like tobacco excise and pretend to be egalitarian like the Australian Left persistently do. No budget measure from this Government even comes close to the financial pain that was inflicted on Australian smokers by Labor - albeit with a fraction of the media coverage this massive fuel excise increase has been given.

Maybe lip service and words mean more to you than money, but I can tell you, all the weasel words in the World will not give back poor smokers their money back.Not in Australia, unfortunately, Jimmy.

We have no document to enshrine such rights. Any of the rights can be altogether dispensed with by a simple act of Parliament and/or judicial interpretation.

Labor's Internet Filter would not have been illegal. Either would the current Government's meta data retention policy. In fact, tomorrow an Act could be passed banning criticism of the Government with a penalty of life imprisonment for such an offence and no recourse would be availbale outside of a General Election. In the US, the First Amendment would see such an Act struck dowsn as unconstitutional. THAT is a right to free speech. 

There is only one free country and it is the US. The rest of us fool ourselves that we are "free" but we are only as free as Parliament and the judiciary allow. And where the interests of either of those institutions is inconsistent with individual freedoms, it is the latter that is dispensed with.

Take the many instances of Derryn Hinch being found guilty of contempt of court - that is, speaking out where the Court has expressly gagged him. Despite overwhelming public support for Hinch, the interest of the judiciary take precedence and Hinch goes to gaol. Why it is in the interests of our judiciary to protect sex offenders is not known. 

The only truly "free" parties in our system are Parliament and the judiciary. They can do as they please, especially the judiciary that is accountable to nobody. At least Parliament is held accountable once every three years.No Harvey, in that time they were purists in being anti-business, not pro-environment. Why the hell would they support Labor in scrapping Howard's Solar Panel Rebates if they were environmental purists? They wouldn't. But they did. They are anti-business purists - then it happened to be "Big Solar" that got their attention. Can anyone explain to me how Howard's Solar Panel Reabte scheme was bad for reducing our emissions? BTW, I built my house after Labor/Greens had removes the rebates and therefore missed out on panels and now pay far more Carbon Tax than most as my family is a fairly heavy user of electricity. This would have been different if PV panels were affordable at the time. Would it be overly cynical to suggest that by lowering the installation rate of PV panels, they were maximising revenue under the CT they had planned? Hmmm.Howard's Direct Action measures os Solar Panel Rebates and phasing out incandescent globes did more to reduce emissions than any tax ever did or ever will do. I wish this debate was not hijacked by liars who call the Libs climate deniers. Whereas look at the Greens demigod, Al Gore. He was effectively in power for 8 years. What did he achieve? Far less than Howard in terms of real measures. Real measures are what mater, not empty rhetoric. And what matters is that the Greens just opposed a fuel excise increse, albeit a very small one. No need to look into their factually incorrect protestations about where the money was going (it was going to the same place as the CT and all other taxes - consolidated revenue), they blocked a move that would have reduced emissions. Also, the Greens supported Labor when they got rid of Howard's Solar Panel Rebates as they were "costing too much" - which means they were being taken up rapidly - that is, Labor and the Greens stymied the development of renewables in the form of domestic PV panels - and anyone in the area knows these facts. Shame on the Greens for thgeir record of environmental vandalism - the only time they stick up for the environment is if some business or industry will be hurt by such a stand. The Greens are anti-business, not pro-environment. Sometimes, like when they opposing logging, they are also COINCIDENTALLY supporting the environment. But they also rallied against the Solar Panel Industry along with Labor.I find it hilrious that the Greens were happy to slug me with a $20/week Carbon Tax, but baulkedat a 40c/week increase in fuel excise on the grounds of protecting Australians from rises in cost of living.

It would, of course, be hilarious if it wasn't the case theat these clowns will get about 20% of the vote next election.No, Mervo, I reckon we went backwards when Labor/Greens removed Howard's Solar Panel Rebates that were doing something REAL about brining down carbon emissions. I suppose it depnds on how you evaluate a scheme - is it how much revenue it raises - in which case as it was a horrible scheme that costs millions - or whether you measure it byu how effective it was in reducing demand for coal fired electricity - in which case it was the best cliumate change policy we have ever had. But we know Labor and the Greens care only about taking your money, so they scrapped the idea as it cost the Government, unlike the CT which generated billions for the Government.Why can nobody tell me why Howard's Solar Panel Rebate should have been abolished by Labor/Greens from an environmental standpoint? You say send a "price signal" to Joe Destitute and he will go out an fork out $20k he doesn't have to minimise his CT costs. I say, Howard's scheme was more effective as it enabled Joe Destitute to at least be closer to affording said Panels that were effective at reducing household demand for coal fired electricity while not requiring households to consume less electricity - THAT is win/win. So why did Labor/Greens scrap that? Tell me. Please.Not so much that, Egg. It is just that they don't want their own Party's values diluted so much so that they are irrelevant - like what has happened to the ALP. Due to their seeking out the affections of the Greens, they did the following (which I don't believe a "traditional Labor Government" would have done):
Introduced a Carbon Tax after saying they wouldn't;
Forming anti-gambling policy to court Wilkie; and
record increases in excise on ciggies and alcohol (and more on alcopops)

Now, by deserting their traditional supporters, the average working person, in the name of negotiating, has left them as a values vacuum. Personally, I would rather an ideologue. At least they stand for something. I think Turnbull would be a fine PM, but only if he did not negotiate with crazies like the Greens and PUP. It is impossible to keep the Greens happy at the same time as keeping working people happy. If the Greens are opposed to industry then by allowing policy to be contaminated by Greens values is fatally foolish. Guess what? People who oppose industry, mining and agriculture already vote Green. And say if Abbott was to ban new farms to keep the Greens happy, do you really think they will get one Green voter to start voting for the coalition? I don't. I say live or die by your principles, rather than sell out your core values, especially when it hurts at the ballot box as well.Absolutely, AJS.

And they were expensive thought bubbles. We are currently paying $1 billion per MONTH in interest due their the inadequacy of the ideas contained within the thought bubbles. We couldn't and still cannot afford stupidity like Gonski and the NDIS. The prblem Abbott has is that both of these bad policies are too superficially popular to ever get rid of. Thanks, Labor/Greens.The presence of social housing itself does an excellent job of dragging down the property values for neighbours who paid for their own houses. I believe in Social Housing Estates - referred to as "projects" in the US.

It is just not fair to those who live in those suburbs that cop State Housing tennants as neighbours. Contrary to what the Lefties will say, there are far more ferals in State Housing than in the wider community. Where do you think criminals (including paedophiles, rapists, murderers etc) are released after they serve their few months in prison? This is why I pay a higher mortgage than I otherwise would have to. I refuse to live in a suburb that allows State Housing as I have young children. Recent case in WA where a registered sex offender was placed in a rural community (with no police stationed there). The community found out and was outraged, so the Government secretly moved him to another unsuspecting community. He's not living in my suburb, but I feel for the hapless, hard working Australians who live in suburbs that permit State Housing as they just might have a new unwelcome neighbour. It isn't right. If they have to live somewhere, it should be amongst those that are given free or subsidised housing.This idea of high density living being more environmentally sustainable is bollocks. Less people is more sustainable, but not more density. Shanghai has high population density, whereas an Australian country town is the opposite. Which environment do you prefer, Shanghai or some small Aussie town. I prefer the latter, but you would obviously prefer Shanghai. That's fine. As any individualist can tell you, differences are a good thing - just don't say that around a collectivist ALP/Green supporter..or you'll be "brought into line."Ummagumma, your post perfectly articulates the contempt with which the majority of the Left view average Australians. Does enjoying a meat pie and a beer affect in any way the validity of one's opinion? I would not have thought so. But, hey, I am just one of the lowly, so what would I know. I do not mean to pick on Ummagumma, as this kind of thinking underpins Left thought, but he/she was honest enough to articulate his/her disdain for those who either have eaten a meat pie or enjoyed a beer.

This is why when Labor/Greens win the next election, we can expect a lot more sin taxes on food and alcohol like beer (they have NEVER wanted to tax their Grange though). Don't worry, Umma, meat pies will get caught by the fat tax AND the salt tax. I just hope they apply such taxes equally to your foie gras. I fear not. As Rudd only taxed alcopops (you know, Umma, those vulgar pre mixes the lower classes are known to buy) but left wine alone despite the fact that it is generally wine that has devastated our indigenous community - more so than pre-mixed spirits. Imagine the squealing from the Left Elite if their grange went up 20% overnight.

What a gratuitous display of intellectual snobbery. Thank you for allowing me to show Australia what the Left really think of everyday Australians.Excellent point.

The budget will suffer simply because the PUP will just oppose anything that is good for the budget but unpopular. They will do the same for the next 6 years (including when Labor gets back in). The difference will be that Labor are a lot looser with cheque book, so Palmer will have less to oppose.

Meanwhile, in about 6 years, we will have a Euro/US style net debt and it will be no one party's fault. It will be the fault of the Australian people who for the past three elections have not given a Government a majority with which to govern the country without overspending - Rudd still had to deal with the Greens before they were "in the tent" with Labor and it was the Greens who blocked his original ETS that Turnbull's Libs supported.. The more special interest parties either Labor or the Libs have to "keep happy", the more irresponsible the spending becomes. A bit like the current CT. PUP has ensured that the tax cuts (the popular bit) of the regime will stay but the CT (the unpopular bit) will go.

And people wonder why confidence is low.Since when did the Left Elite care about the poor? On the contrary, the Left Elite hate the poor, especially those who dare to aspire to more. The last thing they want are "cashed-up bogans" sitting next to them in first class.But the Greens and ALP oppose nuclear even though the science insists that it is very safe in the absence of tectonic activity etc. Could one define those who ignore the science on nuclear as "flat Earthers" or "deniers" for dismissing the overwhelming scientific consensus on nuclear?Hi EM, do you know who got rid of Howard's Solar Panel Rebate scheme under which solar panels were taken up at a record rate that has not been seen since Labor scrapped the shceme? Oh, no. I gave you the answer in the question. But I guess if you were actually interested in solar you would have known that anyway.Just shows why people should not be forced to vote. Anyone who knows anything about the Law knows that what Palmer did was stupid. He tried to introduce a money bill into the Senate. Not constitutional. Yet, these old ducks, who are forced to vote, think that Palmer "outsmarted" Abbott. I would hope that, from the ignorance that you report in what they said, they do not follow politics very closely and would therefore not vote if not made to so. Hey, passionate, stupid people would still vote, but many who know nothing of politics are not stupid, just disinterested. They would not vote and the country would be all the stronger for it.  And please do not compare Australians to Americans. Americans are far more passionate than we are. Look at Obama's inauguration or even crowds at primaries. They love (or hate) their leaders. We tolerate (or hate) ours.Hardly, entertainment. I was looking forward to one thing actually going my way financially. I was worked over by Labor - just started paying extra NDIS to the tune of $25pw. Now I can forget the roughly $20w saving from the CT repeal. Yes, I support a family. Sorry, if you are a Green, I don't have time to explain what a family is or why my bill is higher than some single guy living in an inner city flat.

Anyhow, as I have predicted many times before, NOTHING but the popular but financially stupid things (like the NDIS that everyone was too scared to oppose) will get passed. Please, people, vote in the Senate as you do in the House. At least stuff can get done. We are stuck with PUP and Muir for 6 years. Don't think the ALP and Greens will get anything through in 2017-2020 either. We have 4 people running the country unfortunately...and competent leaders they are not.

Pollies don't get paid enough. We pay peanuts, we get PUP and Muir. No wonder people think they get too much...but of course it is a chicken and the egg problem. Honestly, imagine if Lambie and Muir rocked up and asked shareholders to vote for them at an AGM. But that's because shareholders pay well and expect the best. I am sure that if BHP offered their directors their directors less than a Wharfy's salary, then maybe Muir could get the gig. At least if we had pollies who were the most capable managers, then the handful that inevitably run the country, the crossbenchers, would at least be up to the job. We are stuffed for the next 6 years people. First Abbott will be frustrated from doing anything, then Shorten will not get anyfing (sorry, couldn't resist) through from 2017.For Jan and Feb, my bill had a CT charge of $160 for 2 months or 8 weeks. Yes, my bill was $1600. That's at something like 25c/kWh. Yes, I use my reverse cycle ducted aircon quite a bit during that time. So, yes, judge my less than frugal use of electricity, but don't tell me how much the ALP/Greens cost my family and I. 

Did you know in the US, they pay around 10c/kWh. So, if the Greens thnk that 22.5c/kWh (with the CT) is an insufficient price signal, then what of the US. They would have to increase their tariffs by 250%. And I heard somewhere that they have a few more people peopl than we do. Being financial martyrs for a cause makes no sense. And, hey, I care about myself and my family first and foremost (as most cannot admit) but I do have empathy for those on minimum wage. And just because SOME disabled people will get more (it is not available to those over 60), it does not mean that trhe NDIS makes financial sense. Can you tell me why people cannot, prior to having children, seek private insurance that would cover disability of any future children. Because if you are not BORN with a disablility, then chances are you will not see a cent from the NDIS - remember if one is injured in an accisent (like MV) then a payout will ensue as part of insurance paid for by MV users - an appropriate source of the funds as only MV accident victims can claim. Tell me why those over 60 should have to pay the levy? I'd be interested in your reasoning. The stats you quote assume an increase in disability due to ageing population. Look it up - people over 60 ARE NOT COVERED. You have been conned.At the same time, we enjoyed higher real wage growth than ever before - in traditonally working class areas. Have you heard of "cashed up bogans?" Oh yeah, WorkChoices was a disaster for working conditions for average Aussies. I put that down to an awesome Union campaign paid with the fees from the same guys Howard lifted up so effectively. And people wonder why Unions are on the nose.I genuinely feel for you. But the NDIS is still financially stupid. It may be socially positive and I agree that it would help a lot of people. However, I don't hink we can afford it when I look at the numbers. 

Just like many would love to buy the wheelchair, but cannot afford to do so. The ALP/Greens always attack those who contirbute to generating more wealth and therefore always deliver deficits. If we had not voted Howard out, we would have that much coin in the bank, that I would be recommending far moregenerous programs - like including Universal Dental Care as well as NDIS etc. But we did vote Howard out. Therefore, we cannot afford extra spending as the ALP/Greens have left us severely in the red. Labor/Greens always get less revenue as they are anti-business/anti-high income earners AND they always spend too much.I have a wife and 3 kids, mate. Is that above your average or not? This is what the ALP and Greens do not understand. Not everyone lives like Gillard and her hubby. Two adults who work all day. They would have a CT bill of probably $200 per year or less, whereas larger families (especially where there are people at home all day) can have $1,000 plus. You do know what an average (mean) is, don't you? And, look, I am happy to pay the real cost of generation, but not the external cost of carbon set at the HIGHEST RATE IN THE WORLD.The Palmer amendments were classed as a ""money bill" and therefore could not be introduced in the Senate. They have to be introduced in the House first like any money bill. This has ALWAYS been the case. Not that the lying ALP and Greens will tell you that. But, please, look it up. Just search for Senate introducing money bills.

Another technical reality is that the unwinding of the CT so that it can be back dated to 1 July 2014 will now be too hard. Again, look it up. It is all about these complex contracts that the use. So that means delays in the abiltiy to pass on the reduced price of electricity - unless, of course the retailer wants  to take a hit on it for PR goodwill.

As I have said many times before, the ALP/Greens are only loving Palmer because he is hurting the Libs. Even I admit that the Libs cannot win the next election, which means the Labor/Greens coalition will have to deal with these intellectual minnows for at least 3 years. Palmer will lose Fairfax, but the Senators are there for 6 years. 

Considering Labor were so forward thinking when they knew they were screwed that they masterfully rolled in a few hand grenades on the way out (unfunded Gonski and a raft of unfunded spending), I would have thought they would not be so gushing over Clive. Maybe they will just ramp up the anti-Clive campaign closer to the next election. Personally, if I were advising Labor, I would try to make bring him to heel earlier than that - the only way they can govern after 2016 is to hope that the PUP Senators will respect the results of the 2016 election. As much fun as ALP/Greens supporters are having now, Lib supporters will be having come 2017. 

Forming Government under a hostile Senate run by Clive? No thanks. I hope the ALP/Greens enjoy it. Either way, a Palmer Senate is bad for the country. With Lambie and Muir effectively running theI have no problem paying the true cost of my electricity, just not the world's highest carbon price. Yes, I live in a 5 (plus study) bed, 2 bth house. We have a few large tellies and aircon etc. Nothing like Al Gore's place though. 

I understand your point of view and can see why you vote Green. You have a smaller than average household with below average energy needs. And no doubt, you probabaly got more compensation than you had to pay in extra electricity. I would recommend you continue to vote Green under those circumstances. I, on the other hand, got ZERO compensation and have much higher than average energy needs. Therefore, I despise the Greens. In the end, we both vote with the same rationale. We vote for the party that is best for our financial position. Just make sure you don't get a pay rise or have any more kids.

Funny how under the new Senate, for all the lies you hear from the Greens and ALP about an unfair budget, the only group that will start helping to pay back Labor/Greens debt on behalf of our children and grandchildren, will be those suckers on $180,000 or more. And the ALP/Greens always try to demonise these people...but they are more than happy to take their money and still denigrate them as greedy. Remember, when ALP/Greens hand money out to special interests, they are not being generous as it is not their money - the vast majority comes from those who they call rent seekers or fatcats etc. Those feral students you see on Q and A or in the Occupy movement contribute NOTHING to the needy or government programs. Actually, due to their interruptions of decent people trying to go about their business, they reduce output and therefore actually take away from the needy and Government programs.

And what do you think of the Greens opposingt the fuel excise?No environmental group on the planet wants to see lower taxes on polluting fossil fuels.

And, BTW, as I understand them, Roman orgies would not have involved much electricity use - as it was not discovered when Roman orgies were happening.The Greens also saw a drop in their vote, not just the ALP.

As much as I dislike the ALP, the Greens make them look like excellent. Even though Labor use political bastardry to get votes (as do the Libs), their policies would not (and have not) been devastating for the country. But as we see more Greens influence metastasise into ALP policy, their policies will devastate our economy. The nature of our economy cannot withstand attacks on mining and agriculture like some other countries (EU etc) can absorb.And so they should only concentrate on domestic affairs.

Countries like Australia, and indeed the World, would be far worse off without US engagement, however isolationism got them to where they were just prior to WWII. It costs US taxpayers trillions and most citizens of the World simply don't appreciate US engagement - simply as they are generally too ignorant to project a World with China an Russia as joint World super powers.

As an Australian who does realise how much they do for peace and prosperity in ther World, I would love for the US to increase international engagaement. But if I was a US citizen, I would be listening to Rand Paul. Isolationism is just smarter, from every angle. The US expending resources to bring democracy to other countries does them no material benefit. Their relationship with China brings benefit without any democracy or freedom brought about by US government intervention. We basically owe our security to the US, but what benefit does that give to US taxpayers - nothing. Adn most Australians are too proud or ignorant (or both) to admit that our US alliance is positive at all.

As usual, Rand Paul has got it right from the perspective of US citizens. Isolationism is he only way to bring about another American Century.Besides, I think if the US significantly withdrew from international engagement, it would serve as a reminder to the rest of the World of the vital role thewy have played in World peace and prosperity. It would also provide a useful preview into what it will be like in ,any places when China and Russia are allowed to carve up the rest of the planet - not the US, however, as Isolationism provides for more robust DEFENCE of the US and her territories.Um, no. If Ron Paul, or more likely Rand Paul, was to become POTUS, then there would be no wars unless the US was under threat. But as you and the majority disagree with Libertarianism, you can look forward to more intervention. With Big Government, both social (Republicans) and economic (Democrat), also comes Big Military. It's a bit rich for the Left who support Big Government economically to expect that not  to flow into the Military (which is just an arm of the public service in reality). Both major parites here and in the US support Big Government, just in different areas. Libertarians do not like Big Government anywhere, including an overreaching military.Big Government is ALWAYS bad.Nice sentiment, but I would hardly call the swearing in of only one LDP senator an ushering in of Freedom and Democracy. We will need many, many more LDP candidates to be sucessful in both Houses before we can proclaim a victory for Freedom.

Until then, we currently have a semblance of economic freedom, coupled with social authoritarianism. And if Greens/ALP win in 2016, we have both social and economic totalitarianism.

And PUP, well I just have no idea what they stand for - a footy player, Wang and that horrid Lambie. How sexist is she allowed to be? Of course, Abbott's daughters cannot think for themselves, rather Abbott decides everything they do. One parades one's dog or horse - not one's adult children.

The LDP are the only real alternative to the current Liberal/Labor duopoly - the Greens are no longer independent of ther ALP - rather they have just morphed into the Left wing of the ALP - opposing the fuel excise provides irrefutable evidence of that. So, if you want a REAL change for the better, vote Liberal Democrats - where they can afford a candidate.One cannot be in the middle ground if one despises either Abbott or Shorten, mate. From your comment, she will be voting Labor or Greens, no matter what - hardly the middle ground.

What annoys me is everyone claims they are the middle ground. At least I have the honesty to admit not being middle ground. That is I vote LDP, then Libs with Labor second last and the Greens last - and I probably always will. Criticise that all you like, but at least I do not lie about being in the middle.

To me, the middle ground only includes those who may vote Liberal or Labor in equal probabilities. If one can call who they will be voting for at this stage of the election cycle, then they preclude themsleves from being "middle ground." Simple.Yank, you are not middle ground. I have never read a good word from you about the LNP or a bad word about the ALP..and I have read a LOT Of your posts. I do not class myself as middle, but even my posts occassionally criticise the LNP (especially their social policy where I often support ALP over LNP policy).

Being "of the middle" is not necessarily the preferred option, anyway. To me, people who voted for Rudd or Gillard then Abbott are contrary. I respect guys like Alpo and the Yank more than that. They have their beliefs and they stick to them - I respect that. This is why I have such disdain for Palmer. One minute he believes in one thing, the next he believes in the opposite. Quite pathetic, really.Latham was the Leader of the Parliamentary Labor Party, yank.

No more obscure than the Left trotting out Hewson's comments on carbon pricing. Hewson famously drove a Ferrari. Now he thinks that battlers should emit less. Bah!

Remember, every time you hear "a price on carbon" it is code for "making it more expensive so only the decent people can spew emissions, not those poor people." Personally, the only people I know of that have reduced their electricity usage are poor struggling families who no longer use their fans/acs in summer or electric heaters in Winter.The ALP is NOT noe-liberal. They vote with the Greens 99% of the time for crying out loud. If you think the ALP/Greens are neo-liberal, you must be a hardline Marxist.I agree it is lamentable, but we hacve to realise it is just that people would rather click on an article about Miley Cyrus licking a hammer than debate policy. This isn't exactly new. How many people back int he day wouyld only read the cartoons, sport and horoscopes in the paper? The only difference now is that we KNOW they are only clicking on the shallow things, so they get played to even more. Back in the day, we could only use surveys or sales of an entire publication - I fear that the business section and the in-depth political pieces have been ignored in favour of shallower pieces for a long time, it is just now that the evidence proving so is there.

This is why I continue to support voluntary voting in all elections. If we cannot get the majority to engage real political debate, at least eliminate the most disinterested by allowing them not to vote - as they clearly are not interested and ony serve to negate the votes of people who are interested.Not only that, but Dunlop is peddling misinformation, too.

There have been no real cuts to health and education. There are real increases year on year for as far as has been planned. Labor's brilliant move was to, once they knew they were stuffed, announce MASSIVE increases that were unaffordable.

Let's assume that the Libs cannot recover from current Gilllard Labor level of popularity. Say in June 2016, the Libs are facing a thrashing. If Abbott promised all families a payment of, say, $20,000 payable on June 30, 2017, then Labor (rightly) announced that this could not happen or would have to be reduced, would that mean Labor was cutting payments to familes of over $20,000? I think not. So why peddle the lies that health and education spending is to be cut when it is not?

And by the way, I am what you would call a neoliberal - in fact I am a Libertarian and regard myself as an advocate for those disadvantaged by society. Instead of denigrating individualism, how about a fair description. Individualists give primacy to the decisions of the individual. Somtimes they are consistent with the collective. That is great. But where they are at odds, the individual should prevail. Put simply, our current obsession with with this construct of "society" telling everyone how to conduct their lives costs us dozens if not hundreds of billions a year. I say "us" because there is no such thing as "society" coming up with the resources. Society's resources are forcibly taken from individuals. In the end, I pay far more tax than I should because, say, "society" wants to lock up police, prosecute and incarcerate those who smoke dope. This is despite the fact that over half of the individuals of the said "society" have in fact partaken of the practice themselves at some stage. This is what happens in a collectivist society. 

I note the author talks of individualism being conducive to control by a group of "elites." What? That is collectivism. Please tell me how pure individualism allows non-consensual control over others? It doesn't. Yes, controls need to be in place to ensure no person directly and necessarily affects the rights of other individuals - so laws against, assault, theft, trespass etc. But there should be no restrictions on how one behaves where it does not directly and necessarily impinge on the rights of others - hence there should be no laws against gambling, prostitution, drugs and the many other activities that only affect those partaking in them. There should also be no sin taxes on alcohol, cigarettes or the imminent sugar tax etc. It is these social penalties that cause the massive divides in the community. Those who drink and smoke have far more money confiscated by "society" and therefore, as they statistically come from lower SES segments, this further entrenches their disadvantage. How does freedom hold these people back? It doeI agree to a certain extent. People are not born as workers, management or entrepeneurs (although some are b orn with accesst o more capital than others). Rather, their choice and/or their capabilities dictate their role. Or at least that is how it would be in a purely free market. Things like nepotism would not exist in a truly free market. OneTel serves as an excellent example. Murdoch and Packer were not up to the task, so they failed, despite being two people from extreme advantage. That is because the free market meant only the best survive and therefore they did not. This is how it should be, but in many areas it is the retardation of the free market that allows the inefficient to survivie. Do you really think MUA guys could get the ridiculous conditons they get for their mates and families if we had a free and iopen waterfront like Howard pushed for? Of course not.But last I checked, there are signs of IMPROVEMENT in the economies that engaged in "austerity." It was while they were spending money hand over fist that those economies became progressively weaker. The GFC was just a big event that actually precipitated a change of thinking. Don't think for a second that Greece had a strong economy in 2006.

Australia, on the other hand, which has still been spending far beyond it's means, is seeing a deterioration of our economy. Our economy strengthened while we had a balnced fiscal position. Credit is like a drug. Short term hit, but you pay for it when you sober up. Since our increasing debt, we have seen a deterioration. Whereas since the advent "austerity," places like the UK are seeing much better improvement, albeit from a weak base (caused by profligacy, not austerity). 

Life would be great if we could spend our way out of debt. Unfortunately, it does not work that way unless the spending is soley on PRODUCTIVE infrastructure, like roads, bridges, rail, utilities etc. From an economic point of view, things like welfare and NDIS etc are not productive, even though they are worthy expenditures for non-economic reasons.

Even though he will lose the next election because of this budget, Abbott and Hockey have done a courageous, unpopular thing that will benefit us into the future, so that we do not have to engage in genuinely harsh measures. Ass I always say when it comes to this, a responsible budget can easily be countered by Labor/Greens when they get back in. They can easily go back to massive deficits. Whereas the task handed to the Libs was a lot more difficult - and current polling shows that to be the case. In fact, Labor and the Greens should love the budget as they will look great announcing a whole bunch of spending made possible by these current savings.

Ask yourself which is easier. Racking up the debt on personal credit card or paying it back?FYI, pretty much ALL economists agree that unless we change things there will be an emergency. And the current budget is pretty soft at addressing it. A sliver of a surplus in 2017/18 (I could be wrong on the year). That is, it is a responsible road map to surplus. It is not like Hockey has cutr so hard as to turn Labor's deficit around overnight - that would involve "austerity" measures. Look, the Libs have had to make cuts due to Labor putting the country on a road to an emergency. I might criticise Labor, but they are master politicians. 

Take the $80b "cuts" to education and hospitals etc. What happened was that when Labor realised the 2013 election was no longer winnable, they started thinking about 2016. They PROMISED massive, unprecendented INCREASES in education and health spending. The must have known such increases were not affordable. Health and education spending by Labor during its six years is still less than the Libs will spend over the coming years. It was a simple ploy by Labor to over-promise so they could point at the Libs and accuse them of health and education cuts when they had to reduce the massive increases promised by Labor - and it clearly worked on the general public - although I would refer those with an interest in the matter to ABC's Fact Checker. Let's just hope the Libs show a bit more maturity on the way out in 2016.Agreed, Rhonda. Also agree with the article. Rugby players should be good at rugby. End of story. This is the only negative with corporate influences in sport, unfortunately. The suits have no interest in rugby, just image. This means the rugby suffers. If we want a bunch of choir boys playing, the sport suffers. Yes the act was idiotic, but would a bickie be sacked on Monday if he did it? If the answer is no, then Carney should to be sacked. I don't know how these summary sackings can get through Fairwork protections. Must be that the club gives the person being sacked a bag full of coin. And so they bloody well should. This is why we are so weak at sport these days. We require our sportsmen and women to be morally pure. Shane Warne would never have got to play for Australia if this was around when he was coming through. Same with someone like Boonie.

Oh well, I can see no end to this, so Australians should expect more morally upright sportspeople, but they also need to know that our days of having world beating sportspeople is over. Will Liverpool still play Suarez? Absolutely. Would any A-league team? Hell, no. Why do we expect the people who are best at sport to also be the most righteous? Because if the latter trumps the former like it does today, probability dictates that World beating sportspeople in Australia are far less likely to see the light of day. That is, they will be weeded out as not having the sufficient morals to play sport at the highest levels. We can look forward to having the best behaved sportspeople. Sad...but unfortunately, a sign of the times.Sorry, Kerry, but where have you been over the last 30 years?

If a smoker claims that they do not know smoking is bad for them, then I, respectfully, would disagree with that. Your claim is that scientists for Big Tobacco have convinced everyone smoking is harmless. Are you sure you are not confusing tobacco with alcohol?

No, "Big" Tobacco are not responsible for people deciding to use to tobacco. That is/was an individual choice. Besides, look at the stats, "small" tobacco is enjoying a meteoric rise at the moent (that is, the guys who pay no taxes as they operate in the black market). No, unfortunately, Big "Health" is now responsible for more deaths of tobacco addicts as they unnaturally deprive them of wealth - a major determinant of general health and wellbeing. That is, a mental patient who was addicted decades ago and is made to live on nothing, currently has to spend almost all their on cigarettes - not due to the inherent cost associated with the production of the cigarettes, but the tobacco excise (supported by Big Health). Do you think this situation is good for the health of tobacco addicts? Talk about deniers. Big Health simply deny the link between poverty and bad health outcomes. Truly despicable.You only have to suck on a ciggie to know they arew bad for you. Same with a mouthful of whiskey. Surely.

Anyway, people were still free to choose. However, addicted people cannot choose to avoid the negative consequential of being taxed into poverty. I couldn't sleep at night if I were responsible for such misery in the community. Evidently, those in Big Health have no probelm with it. When Labor's excise increases are finished in 4 years, a packet of ciggies will run addicts around $30-35 per pack.

I hope the Left enjoys spending these funds. Just know, that they are made from the misery of the most vulnerable.Such alarmism is unwarranted. OK, say climate changes, then so does our behaviour. It would really mean changing crops, that's about it. Think about what we currently produce in Australia. How much of that was "naturally occurring" and how much have we introduced? I can tell you. The vast majority is not nbative to Australia. That is, many crops can be grown under conditions that differ from their native environment. For example, hydroponic crops are obviously grown under conditions that are certainly different to their natural environment. Then they are GM crops which providse further options.

So, yes we will have to change a few things, but talk of "not being around" is just alarmism. If we are not arouynd in a thousand years it will as a result of nuclear holocaust or some such direct anthropological event. We will simply adapt to a warming (or cooling) climate.Why should I not be able to donate money to whomever I like?

The Greens claim they received many, many small donations. That does not mean they are beholden to those donor's wishes - rather all it says to me is that there are many, many fools out there.

The only one I disagree with is the ALP getting funds from Union members who may not wish to have money given to Labor. Remember, this is not the ALP of old - it is a Left Elite party that has changed it's identity considerably from a worker's party to something more akin to the Greens. Therefore, while many may still want Union representation, they may not vote Labor and would certainly not donate to their campaign. This is a party whose leader called Australian men misogynists. This is a party that recently put a ridiculously high (highest in the World) excise on tobacco (only one of FIVE 15% increase has come in just now). This is a Party that taxed alcopops - which includes your JB &amp; Cola and your Jacks &amp; Cola etc. These kinds of policies are a kick in the guts for the bloke down the pub in his hi-vis. What was next? A ute and iced coffee tax? I also believe that is why they have lost votes too, but that's another matter.

For now, I say Union fees should not be able to be given to the ALP. I fully support the Union running events etc whereby members are able to directly donate to the ALP. The main thing for me is consent of the donor and I think it is a little lacking at the moment. Personally, I know some blokes (ex-Labor) that would rather have seen Thompson tuck their fiver into a G-string than see it go to support the like of Plibersek who jacked up the cost of their drinks, and put their ciggies up - I take it upon myself to point out that Labor did that, even though the Libs will be in power when the majority of the increases hit the averasge battler. They didn't know that - I guess that was rather shrewd of Labor - but it's still a kick in the guts - even if they think it's Abbott's boot, not Gillard's.How can assume it will go through? My preciciton is that nothing but the tax on the "rich" will get through. Nothing.

Even scrapping the CT will no get through unless Abbott agrees to PUP's ransom. Either way we are stuffed. We either have a muppet like Palmer running the country or we retain the CT. Because no measures will get through the Senate, we are effectively living under the previous Government's policy.

So, net debt goes to $650b and I would predict at least $800b by 2016. Then...well...let's not even think about what it will after another 3 years of Labor/Greens...True, Evan.

But I don't think anyone that actually follows politics thinks Greens policy has ANYTHING to do with the environment. It might have way back when, but not anymore. That is clear from their blocking Rudd's ETS and now this blocking of a fuel excise that every economist will agree would act like a carbon tax to reduce petrol consumption.

The Greens are just a socialist party. They would be more honest to call themselves the Socialist Alliance or some such, rather than than the misleading name they currently go by.That is absolutely correct. Same with Labor's NDIS tax (increase in Medicare Levy) that we can all look forward to begin paying in a week's time.

Worse than that, people between 60-70 will be paying the extra impost but not be allowed access to the NDIS. In fact, nobody over 60 has access to it. It is a rort. Because it when one is over 60 that is far more likely that one will become disabled. 

Would it not be financially prudent for a diabetic in his/her fifties to precipitate that amputation before they turn 60? Sounds pretty twisted, but that is Labor's rushed NDIS that will be unavailable to the majority of people who suffer from disability - that is, those over 60.

No, the NDIS tax was just a (failed) attempt to try to produce a surplus over Swanny's forward "estimates."Yes, but empirical evidence shows differently.

The poorer a country, generally the worse their environmental record - as they simply cannot afford the more environmentally friendly (generally morew expensive) options. 

People buring old car tyres or even wood to keep warm is NOT a better outcome. The only postive environmental outcome would be for massive de-population. Otherwise, prosperity is the only path to better ewnvironmental outcomes.

For an example, check out what our mining companies are compelled to do environmentally as opposed to Asian, African or South American mining companies. Not that the Greens will let you in on it.More revenue from sound policy that attracts business and therefore more economic activity is hardly luck. Revenues will always be lower under Labor and lower still under Labor/greens.

So, I would say, more spending when income is higher isn't that much of a crime. If you take the family to Disneyland after a big bonus, that is not irresponsible. Putting the trip on the credit card would be irresponsible. 

Under Greens/labor revenue will be lower as business conditions deteriorate. Do you really think it is coincidence that Labor has NEVER delivered a surplus? Oh sorry, they may have delivered one since 1945. Anyway, it is simple. You cannot get rid of businesses and expect more revenue. THAT was the problem over the last 6 years. Labor/Greens committing to all kinds of new spending while telling business to take a hike. One cannot have one's cake and eat it too.They could easilly have victory if the mission is what other countries do, namely conquer the land. They'd do it in a matter of weeks, not months. The difference is that they do not propose making the area US territory, so "victory" is quite impossible.

The decent majority in the Middle East are not lucky enough for the West to take control. It would only be via Western conquest that the fighting would stop. But it would involve far too much blood being spilt for Western voters to support it. Unfortunately, the myriad of tit for tat conflicts in the Middle East will go on for the foreseeable future.

The problem I have with only bombing is that it just creates enemies of the West. The people we bomb today, will hate the West tomorrow. That is why I do not support this pussy footing around. Either we leaved the whole thing alone (my preferred option) or we "take out" the "bad guys." Full scale invasion involve elimination of enemy forces - at least then there would be an end to the matter.We have a very beneficial alliance with the US. If we tried to satnd on our two feet (which is what happens when you don't have allies) we would either have to start spending a LOT more on defence or any Asian country could walk into Australia without any resistance. The populace are not even armed like the US and others, so guerilla resistance would be out also, 

Same as we sent our boys to Gallipoli because Britain used to play the role the US now does - effectively our protector. We are not getting sucked in. It is a trade off. We get to spend more on things that benefit our citizens (health, education etc) in exchange for doing as our protector wishes in most cases. I would rather be the country with Universal Health Care that occasionally has to send a few troops to a war that would not have anything to do with us if we were isolationist.

I know, I know, Lefties say you don't have to do either. That nobody would invade us if we were on our own. I respectfully disagree as I believe it is strength, direct or by proxy, (as in our case) that wards off threats, not the benevolence of other countries.This is true STB.

I will admit to opposing a select few cultures. Not races, but cultures. I notice today there was an article about a pair of African men following and trying to attack a woman in Sydney. The attack was so brazen (following her on and off trains and then chasing her down the road) that it is clear these guys have a different view of women than what is acceptable in Australia. And should we be surprised? I don't think so. In Africa, extreme Islam is practiced widely. Women are but chattels in that culture. Also, many of the cultures indigenous to Africa also treat women as chattels. We need to cease allowing ADULT OR ADOLESCENT MALE immigration from these types of cultures. Women and young children should of course be allowed in. Either we take a few steps back in terms of gender equality, or we stop welcoming those who do not believe in gender equality. We cannot have it both ways.

On Brazil; I am not thrilled about that culture as they have widespread exploitation of women/young girls, one of the highest homicide rates in the World and crippling corruption. Brazilian culture is not as bad as the majority of Islam and some African cultures, but it is still not ideal. We need to look far more carefully at the cultures and value systems of those we allow to become Australian.Hi Ann

I am sorry if I am incorrect on the equality of women in Africa as compared with the West. I understand that I may be misinformed. But so might you. Is female circumcision more prevalent in Africa than Australia? From the information I have been exposed to, it is. However, I concede that the information could be incorrect, but it generally comes from otherwise credible sources that have no reason to lie about it.

If you think women in African countries enjoy the same equality as Western women, that is fine. And if you think me prejudiced because of my opinion re certain cultures, that is OK. I geneuinely hope that I am wrong. I could be as I have never been there.Ann, I can accept your rejection of Western values. But you cannot accept my rejection of certain non-Western values. Why am I "prejudiced" for criticising Islamic or African culture, but you are not "prejudiced" for criticising Western culture? I am genuinely interested in your explanation of such apparent hypocrisy.No, what Chris is saying that the stimulus meant that the Reserve bank hiked interest rates, so there was limited effect on aggregate demand frfom the stimulus as interest rates were therefore higher than they otherwise would have been. So, consumers with debt may have got a stimulus cheque, but then had to pay more on their mortgages, car loans and credit card debt.

The ultimate effect, therefore, was limited in terms of aggreagte demand, however, it meant the AUD was higher due to higher interest rates in Australia compared with other countries. Higher demand for Australian deposits pushes up the AUD. A higher AUD is better for Aussie tourists, but disastrous for Aussie exporters or those Aussie companies that compete with exports ie pretty much all manufacturing industries these days.

But I am no supporter of the current Government either, don't worry about that. Hawke, Keating and Howard make Rudd, Gillard and Abbott look like amateurs.Oh, the Builders' Early Retirement program. If you owned a building company, sure it was a great initiative. But paying two or three times the market value for work only means extra profit. I am sure these builders did not pay their employees three times the wages when the sucked the Government into agreeing to pay three times the price for an undercover area in a primary school. The vast majority of the funds went to the OWNERS of building companies, nobody else. The only increase in employment may have been in domestic services. Builders', I am sure, would have put on a butler or maid to help around the house - cleaning a 15 bedroom 6 bathroom house on the river isn't as easy as you think.The cash rate would probably have bottomed out a little bit higher than other OECD countries' rates. This would have meant a lower AUD more in line with our long term average as it was our comparatively high interest rates that meant a higher AUD.

Look, either the RBA got it wrong (saying the economy needed to be slowed down through higher interest rates) or the ALP/Greens got it wrong (saying the economy need to accelerate through fiscal stimulus). Considering the statement re political costs in the above article, I reckon it is more likely that Labor/Greens got it wrong.Unfortunately, you guys do not understand economics. We did NOT need stimulus. Hence, the RBA increasing interest rates at the same time. Therefore, in the opinion of the independent RBA, the economy required to be slowed, hence jacking up interest rates. It was madness. It is like putting your feet on the brakes (higher interest rates) and the accelerator (fiscal stimulus) at the same time. You won't go anywhere, but you'll wear your tyres out. The stimulus and resultant higher interest rates simply meant a higher AUD. That is better fopr importers and tourists and worse for exporters or those companies that compete with imports.

What really got us throught he GFC was good economic reforms under Hawke, Keating and Howard, but I know that will not be accepted by cheerleaders from either Labor or Liberal as it is always the other sides fault.As I said, cheerleaders from either party would say its all the other side's fault. 

Howard introduced a broad based consumption tax, which Keating championed before he realised that it was politically untenable at the time. That was a good move from Howard. The distribution to States, on the other hand, not so much. WA has lost it's good credit rating and it currently gets back less than 40 cents in the dollar on the GST. But one States insert is another's joy, I guess.Excellent article.

The stimulus therefore had the effect of putting us into massive debt AND meaning a higher dollar than would have been as the stimulus meant higher interest rates which in turn lead to a higher AUD.

Now, what are the biggest problems facing the Australian economy today? Massive debt and an overvalued AUD. Thanks, Labor/Greens.

Dark days ahead for ALL, unfortunately. We have an out of control authoritarian Government that is economically responsible, but the only decent policies these current Liberals have, ie the Budget, are not going to pass the Senate. So we get all the bad stuff like monitoring all online activity of Australians but none of the good policies like repairing the budget. So, not only will we have the civil liberties of North Korea, we will soon be experiencing the economic life of North Koreans. If there was a positive to today's political reality, I would try to focus on that, but sadly, there is not.

Why, oh why, did we have to vote the Howard Government out? That mistake will be haunting us for generations to come.Hi Mark, all of the above institutions have a private agenda. Including the OECD. Just like we would like to see the Chinese increase their debt, as that means they spend more on our minerals. Their debt is not our problem, but their spending is in our favour. What do any of those institutions care that our children will have to pay off debt?I know Labor support Big Brother but at least for Labor that's in their DNA. For a so-called Liberal government to support the Government interfering in every aspect of the lives of its citizenry is just wrong. Also, it leaves us with no real choice. Apart from the Liberal Democrats (who stand next to no chance of forming Government) one cannot vote for a party that respects Australians' right to privacy.

I am not making a judgment as to whether privacy is a good or bad thing, just lamenting that we no longer have a choice in the matter. I admit, however, I support small government and privacy for individuals, but I am certainly not in the majority on that. But I think I am in the majority in thinking it would be good if our democracy accommodated real choice on the issue. Unfortunately, it no longer does. And for the record, the IPA are with me on the privacy issue.Oh, and TC, what is the difference between the Australian Government and Google/Facebook? The latter does not have the ability to cut off my Internet as proposed by the current Government, lock me up, or fine me where they BELIEVE (no trial or evidence required) I have visited a site of which they do not approve. Now, imagine that Corey Bernardi was compiling that list of websites? See the problem?Excellent point. 

I would only allow judges to rule only on points of law in criminal cases. That is, Rules of Evidence etc. Once found guilty, the matter should then be referred to the Department of Sentencing or some other branch of the Executive, which of course would be headed up by a Minister for Sentencing. That way, if sentences are too lenient or harsh, the people can hold the Minister accountable at a general election. At the moment, judges are unaccountable other than their decision are reviewed by other judges. They are not currently accountable to the community they are supposed to represent. I think you would see sentences that better reflect community attitudes. Yes, of course that would mean harsher penalties for violent/sexual crimes and probably less for white collar crimes, but it would be the will of the people. That way, if Lefties wanted more lenient penalties for paedophiles and the like they would have to convince the community - good luck with that.But it is the play thing of out of touch judges ATM. The difference between pollies and judges is that we can turf pollies if they screw us over. Judges not so much. BTW the monarchy is older than the common law. Guess we can put that Republic stuff to bed then using your logic.But those that do wish to commit these crimes cannot do so while in gaol. Therefore, we are safer for that period of time. And if their incarceration increases their likelihood of committing crime when they get out, then extend sentences even further. It should be all about protecting the community, not the perpatrator.Yes, the old Lefty argument of punish the rest of us via restricting alcohol just so that the truly evil can go about their business. 

You are basically saying that if I go and drink at a bar and then beat someone to death, it is the publican's fault. Wake up. Some people are just bad, mate. It is not the fault of some big, bad business. They are just evil. Why can't the Left get that through their thick skulls?

How much was Ivan Milat drinking every day? What if he didn't drink at all? The judiciary are generally sympathic to arguments like yours Scott and that is why mandatory sentences are necessary in the first place. You see, according to the Left it is never the individual's fault because in their ideal world. the individual would not exist.Yes, the stats. Have you considered under reporting becoming a bigger problem. I can tell you as someone who closely follows sentencing, that if I was a victim of rape, nobody would find out? Coz the guy I would be dobbing in will be out in no time at all - if he is even given a custodial sentence in the first place. Just like poor battered women who go to the cops, only to be murdered later as all the Courts would do was put an AVO on a guy who has no respect for the law in the first place. Take the current Royal Commission. Many, many if these people never hit your precious stats...but I think you know that. Apologists for violent people are a lot of things, but stupid is not one of them.No Luke, I posted earlier that I lament the fact that Mndatory Sentencing does not apply to the worst injustices, that is, sentencing in sexual offences, especially those involving children. Again though, the less the sentence for the perpetrator the less likely I would be to dob the perp in. For example, if I know you'll be in gaol until such time that you cannot come and get me for dobbing you in, I would dob you in. If, on the other hand, I know you'll get a couple of months of serious weight training in a state of the art gym, then I won't don you in. Its called self preservation. Especially for people like me who could not fight his way out of a wet paper bag. I can imagine how women feel when confronted with a big rock ape telling them they are dead if they go to the cops. But you tell yourself whatever you want to believe. I just know there are people out there who would rather tell some bikies about the problem and make a donation to their club rather than leave it up to our "justice" system.Couldn't agree more, Pete. Very well said.Inequitable outcome?

Says who? The legal system only rallies against Mandatory Sentences as they remove the ability for some defence lawyer to get his/her clientan INADEQUATE sentence based on things people like me find irrelevant. Like the background of the violent criminal on trail.

The only issue I have is why it they don't introduce Mandatory Sentencing for the the offences that seem to be the most heinous with the least adequate sentences. That is, child sex offences and sex offences more generally. Judges have proven time and time again they cannot be trusted to hand down adequate sentences for theanimals who perpetrate these crimes. Rehabilitation? Don't care. Deterrence? Whatever. I just want these animals out of my community. Full stop. Do I care about Johnny paedophile's background? Nup.

I have a simple solution. Wherever an innocent victim is harmed by an individual that has been before the Courts for a similar offence a MINIMUM $10m is awarded to the victim or his/her estate. Simply because the State has fdailed in it's Duty of Care to protect it's citizens from KNOWN threats. Then the legislature would be forced to bring in mandatory sentences for the worst crimes as I am sure they would not listen to the permissive legal system if it was hitting them in the only place they care about - consolidated revenue. 

I read so many cases at Law School that left me so appalled at the legal system, I realised I could never be an officer of the Court. I honestly do not know how defence lawyers sleep at night. I know the theory. But I personally could not get up and try to minimise the sentence given to the most evil in our community. I pity those that have to. Almost as much as I pity those inevtiable future victims.

Unfortunately, however, there has been no talk of this despite the current Royal Commission into child abuse. Which I think is a complete waste of money as NOTHING has come of it. No increase in sentences or even mention of it. Just publicising how prevalent the crime is in our community and how little our politicians and judiciary care about such offence. One goes down harder for tax evasion than for multiple offences against children. Moreover, paedophiles are actively protected by the system - just ask Derryn Hinch.Thing is, inset, you can vote out pollies that you disagree with, whereas I can do nothing about judges with whom I disagree. Again, if Vice want to be more lenient on crime, they can vote Labor or if they want to really be nice to violent crims, they can vote for the Greens. What is wrong with choice? Put it this way, what if we garnished with backbone that started handing out adequate sentences? Then you would have no recourse for your wishes for more leniency. That would not be right, either. Clearly sentencing is something that is political and it should be as it involves consequences based on opinions and value judgements, not facts. There are no facts on which I rely to loathe paedophilia. Rather it is just my opinion. Yours is clearly different. Best solution for such an impasse is democratic resolution. The judiciary and legislature can still be separate but both accountable to the people.I agree, I would have Mandatory Sentencing for any violent crime.Umm, have you seen Ferguson? I'd demand an APC if I was a white cop in that neighbourhood. You do know that the racism in America cuts both ways. Remember that Aussie baseballer shot in the back? And did you see that peace loving Brown in the shop moments before the incident? Remember, criminals have access to powerful guns over there. The cops always need to be better armed than the bad guys, coz there's a lot of bad guys in the US. I mean look how easy riots are set off. They need to be militarized regretfully.Prisoners cannot harm people outside prison, that's the point. Most of us couldn't give a rats about the deterrent. We know that a violent animal is a violent animal. We just don't want to have to identify our son or daughter at the morgue. Why is it so hard to get? I get the opposing point of view. That its all our fault and prison won't help the poor little violent person better themselves. I know. It won't. But they cannot hurt anyone else while in gaol, so that is where they should be.Also, I am not violent when drunk. Alcohol, like I am sure other drugs, is truth serum. People who are violent when drunk are inherently violent but when sober can control their violent urges.That's an easy one. The answer is: more likely than I am prepared to risk. Threaten a judge and you'll see they take some crimes seriously. Same with property crime like fraud. Like I have said before, why not allow popularly elected judges? Oh, it will lead to decisions that are designed to please voters rather than be the best decision. Could one not use that argument against popular election of the legislature?

Elected judges would mean more decisions that the people, you know those that pay judges' salaries, support and less that they don't support. What is wrong with that?Jury might pity them. Good luck with that.Giving the people what they want? How dare they.It is difficult to support an opinion with evidence. It basically boils down to opinion. Some prefer lenient sentences and giving predators chance after chance whereas some of put the protection of the community as paramount. 

Generally, I find that those who are wealthier tend to be more bleeding heart as they do not live in the filth released by the Courts. I am a rare exception as I paid quite a bit more than average to be in a Houso-free community. Not because of the decent poor people,but because violent animals are given PRIORITY for public housing over said decent people. However, even though I am less likely to be affected, I still care about all those decent people in the houso areas where the violent scum are given accommodation.

A good example would be the Claremont Serial Killer in WA. There have been many an unsolved murder over the years, but only one thy attracted a massive reward. Why? That's right, when rich girls got killed, something had to be done.If it was three hookers, the WA system wouldn't have given a rats. That's why, generally speaking, rich people are more lenient with sentences. I wonder if a paedophile that lived among judges in Brighton or Kew would be given a suspended sentence. I think not.



Yes, but that is to protect the small States from the big States in a Federation. You see, if a NSW vote was "worth" the same as a Tasmanian vote, then over 50% of Senators would be NSW or Vic, which I am sure the ALP would love. THAT is why Keating disliked the Senate. The Victoria and NSW people generally vote Labor. I mean, the Greens actually WIN the seat of Melbourne. So as a State like WA would have to secede or be ruined under a one vote, one value Senate. To be fair, why should people in inner Melbourne give a toss about a farmer in WA's wheatbelt? There would be no Australian Federation if that was the original proposal. Maybe NSW and Vic could join, but the rest of us would have to go it alone. With no voice standing up for Agriculture &amp; Mining, WA would be like Tassie. A primary based economy that was run into the ground by ALP/Greens policy hostile to Agriculture and Mining.Australia has a high voter turn out for the same reason all North Koreans cried publicly when Kim Jong Il died. That is, they are PUNISHED if they do not do so.

The US parties use strategies to get their supporters to vote. Is that so shocking? Why? A Because they are a free people. Because they are free to choose not to vote if they do not wish to do so. It's always hard to explain indivdual freedom of choice to an ALP/Greens pollie.

Put it this way, if you got fined for not shopping at one of the big supermarket chains, do you think those businesses would waste time with marketing and paying people like Jamie Oliver or Curtis Stone to convince you to shop there. Of course not. THAT is why Americans need to be be encouraged to vote - they are not punished if they do not vote. We, on the other hand, are frog marched down to the polling booth under threat of confiscation of a portion of our property - a fine.

To defend compulsory voting is to rail against freedom of choice. Compulsory voting is a national shame - I put it in the same boat as conscription and other oppressive policies. If Joe and Jane Australian would rather do something other than cast their vote, they should be allowed to do so.

Of course, PREVENTING people from voting is another story - any poll needs confirm ID or there could be multiple voting. And as to the gun licence being accepted but not a student ID card, I would certainly hope a gun licence is a stronger form of ID and therefore harder to counterfeit. I remember when I got my Uni ID Card, they just laminated the cardboard right in front of me. ANYONE could forge it with a $2 passport photo booth. I have no knowledge of the security measures on a gun licence, but it SHOULD have in-built security features (little hologrammy thingies and stuff) just like our Drivers' Licences.

I admit it would be nice if everyone wanted to vote, but it would be nice if everyone did a lot of things that people choose not to do - like volunteer etc. I know the goal of collectivism is to have everyone doing "what is best for them" which is the same goal of us individualists. The defining difference is that individualists believe that the decision of "what is best" should be made by each individual, whereas collectivists prefer to proscribe "what is best". That is, collectivists see average Australians as not capable of making that decision for themselves. While everyone that reads the Drum would want to vote, MANY people I know would not want to vote as they do not approve of ANY candidates strongly enough and would rather go fishing or something. Or they simply "don't give a stuff." When you look at the Rudd/Gillard/Rudd/Abbott series of Governments, do you blame them?You are correct, Zing.

This is all done at the behest of Murdoch. So, where content that he sells at 4 to 5 times the price it goes for in the US, he is simply able to use public resourse (ASIO, AFP etc that are not funded by Murdoch) to pursue those he BELIEVES are pirating. Normal rules of evidence will not apply. Warrants can now be issued retrospectively (even up to 6 months later). And where the Government raids a home for Murdoch and within 6 months they cannot conjure up evidence of piracy, then journalists will NOT Be able to even report such despicable behaviour.

So, just because we don't hear it the news, I will assume that it is happening. To think otherwise would be akin to thinking that the Chinese Govrnment never get it wrong because the State Media do not report on it. Once people realise what this Government is doing (when the battering ram comes to their door) it willbe too late because then, veen a neighbour posting on their Facebook would be locked up if they commented on it. I know that I will never stand or be silent for our national anthem again, not while it has the words "we are young and free" as that is simply no longer true.Too true.

Unless he has blind trust in all public servants and all politicians of all stripes.Also, before they make it criminal, the ISP will have to cough up your metadata to a private entity - a copyright holder. Therefore, by extension, any private entity (including natural persons), will be able to request the same. I hope they will exclude those with criminal records, but we all know that that until a criminal is convicted, they will obviously not have acriminal record. So, it will be the case that anyone can access your metadata should they wish to do so. Remember, in the eyes of the Law, a corporation is no different to an individual. So if Warner Brothers can make a request, so can John Warner down the road.

So, this will enable all manner of crimes against people. Fore example, from cyber bullting at the low end to domestic violence leading to murder at the higher end. Say Jane Abused leaves Joe Abuser and tries to hide from him. In the absence of an AVO (or an application under a false ID), Joe Abuser can find out pretty much all he wants aboiut Jane Abused. A hotel/accommodation can be found from metadata. That is, you can't see the email but yuou can see that they visited the Holiday Inn website and went to X page under "Our Loactions" etc. Then one can see the location that was looked at. So unless Jane was savvy enough to click on all their locations, Joe would kno0w exactly where she was staying from the metadata. This is also a boon for those who seek to groom children to abuse for the same reason. They can simply make an application and find out whether they watch a lot Bieber videos on YouTube or whatever other websites a particular child visits.

And, now, if the Government is made aware of this happening, they can simply cover up the fallout (and there would be a LOT of fallout) by slapping the SIO tag on it and gagging anyone from discussing it. The reason they will cover it up rather (whether they prosecute offenders or not) is that even the most pliant posters on here would turn against the policy if they knew it would enable this kind of thing. At the moment they are not aware and the Government intends to keep it that way.

By the way, this is not just a shot at the Government, this is one of the only things the Government has done that the ALP supported. Which is equally sickening. But the Government is still more responsible as they introduced the legislation. So, this is here to stay, no matter how we vote in two years time. The only winners will be somne sections of the tourism industry as we will become a hotspot of those who seek to exploit others for their own gratification or financial gain. This is the new reality, so please protect your kids and set up a VPN or get a young person you know to help you do so.That's right.

And the negative impacts from this will be covered up as no body can report or comment on anythiing the Government (at its discretion) labels an SIO.Absolutely, Ann. And intelligence agencies know this. Look into setting up a VPN. See how cheap and easy it is. This is why it is preposterous that a multi-billion dollar organisation like ISIL, or other organised terrorist groups, will be affected at all by these moves. It is aimed at us little people, that is plain to see.Google setting up a VPN, Yank. It is really simple. Whichever site you go to holds your hand through the whole process. Some are even free, but I recommend a paid on (they cost around $5 per month). I know that is more money on top of everything the Governments since 2007 have done to increase our cost of living, but what price freedom. And what price the security of your family - especially your children or grandchildren who are even more vulnerable?I disagree.

I do not agree with Government ever collecting personal data on free citizens. They should only have that right where there is an objectively tested reason to suspect criminal behaviour. Full stop. Their spin doctors have no effect on me.

This is the problem with collectivists. What is the "common good"? What is good for you may not be good for me. So, pocket, as a collectivist, you really are part of the problem. This collectivist Government has made its decision for the "common good". If you don't like it, you should maybe look at individualism. You see, a true collectivist has no right to privacy as in their eyes we are merely part of one entity - society. Only individualism allows for something to be solely "your business". Pure collectivism means your business is everyone's business and vice versa.I support a pre-emptive strike. When Russia strikes first and gets the upper hand, nukes will be used and there will be world-wide devastation. A conventional attack on ALL Russian global installation needs to be carried out.

I thought we had learnt our lesson of appeasing expansionist dictators who invade foreign countries. I guess we haven't.Hey buddy, BATA gets nothing from the Government. In fact, its products are by far and away the most discriminated against products in our economy.

But, of course, that must be because tobacco is the only product/service in our economy that can be harmful. Or is it because it is addictive and the demand for addcitive products is entirely price inelastic and therefore Government can use it as an eternal honey pot? Most selfish non-smokers could would obviously take the former attitude, whereas I take the latter view.

In fact, the harsh treatment of tobacco, just goes to show that tobacco has underinvested in lobbying as Australia has the second highest tobacco excise in the world. I concur with Ben above in that singling out BATA is a very poor example to support your anti-tobacco stance on this issue.

You should, of course, have singled out the wine industry. They get tax concessions and its product devastates lives of not only its consumers but those around them - especially our indigenous population. It also leads to a plethora of social problems. Yet, it retains tax concessions via the WET. THAT is a good example of successful control of Government via lobbying.Those costs are just marketing for increases in excise - and they evidently work on people like you.

Quick biology and economic lesson for you. Economically speaking, the economy is best off if every one of us dies quickly of a physical failure the day after we retire. Not something we want, but economically more beneficial. Do you have any idea how much money a healthy pensioner living to 100 costs us. Do you think that is more than the guy with emphysema. Google what they do for you if you have emphysema. I can save you the time - nothing. You might get an oxygen tank for the last year or two. Nothing can be done, co no precious (to you people) cost. Whereas, the guy who lives with demedntia for 20 plus years costs us MILLIONS. Constant care, medications etc. Same with Parkinsons/Alzheimers and all the other mental deterioration conditions. Hip replacements, vision problems, other cancers (yes, non smokers are neither immortal or immune from other cancers). Look, dying of say emphysema is horrible, but its costs are minuscule and (to use the heartlessness that Big Health have in their DNA) it presents a saving - less pension and subsidised meds until someone finally keels over at 100 after 20 odd years in a nursing home. Hey, I hope I am the guy living to 100, but if I am, I will cost the public FAR more than the bloke who dies in his early 70s from emphysema or a massive fatal heatr attack or stroke.

Smoking is bad for your health and certainly takes years off your life, but generally does not kill working age people and therefore, from a solely economic point of view, provides an economic BENEFIT and that is before you even include the extra $4k pa in taxes a pack-a-day smoker pays, ceteris paribus.Excise SHOULD go there, but to think it ever will just shows the difference between those like me who distrust Government and those who unconditionally trust Government.

You are in teh majority, my friend. So enjoy oppressing tobacco addicts - at least it means it helps Government get bigger and bigger. I am beginning to look to the sugar tax, just so some non-smokers can feel pain of Big Government - even though I am a sugar consuming non-smoker. But don't worry, mate, the Government will only be taxing sugar for your own good. Haha.My point is that there should be NO product specific taxes/subsidies/tariffs etc. They are the lifeblood of lobbyists. I raised the alcohol issue in order to show that Alcohol Lobbyists have been far more successful than Tobacso Lobbyists in Australia.No, he means expression of social/political views. Like the ANU avoiding "unethical" investments. That is, the ANU is not trying it to necessarily maximise returns, rather they seek to not support causes/industries they disagree with. If a private compay wants to curtail their earnings, that is a matter for them and they should not seek to have those earnings supplemented by Government. The ANU DOES take money from hard working Australians so I do not feel that is appropriate, but if private shareholders want to forego income, then that is OK.Tobacco has a far smaller return to the tobacco companies. 90% of the cost of a pack of ciggies goes to the despicable Government. Therefore, as the Government benefits the most out of tobacco, they are the most culpable - they are no better than ice dealers. Do you think ice dealers charge a lot for their product because they want their clients to give up? Becasue that is how stupid the notion that tobacco excise increases are designed to reduce smoking are. The only thing that reduces smoking is education about its negative impacts.Oh, sorry, I missed the bit where he mentioned the US. What he meant that SOMETIMES a company may donate on the same grounds that the ANU has. Say, a company that believes in gay marriage as they see it as a social justice issue, may donate to the Greens. Do you get me?

If I was independently wealthy, I would live in the US. But I would donate to the LDP here in Australia, not for direct benefit as I would not live here, but just to "give back" and help improve life in Austalia. That is, I would donate as I believe in their values. Like donating to Amnesty. Most donors get no direct benefit, but they feel that are contributing to helping out oppressed people as an act of altruism.It is NOT bollocks. See my response to Comrade above.I agree, but neither should ANY company. The problem at the moment is that do subsidise fossil fuel industires and they should cease. Not because I disagree with fossil fuels, but I disagree with subsidies where there is a functioning market that can accommodate the building in of all costs to the end users. So if reflecting the true financial cost means an increase in prices, so be it.

I only disagree where costs are due to Government regualtions, like the CT. Such costs are confected. As are things like tariffs to protect favoured companies/industries or punitive taxes like tobacco excise.

There should be NO product/industry specific subsidies/tariffs/excises/taxes. EVER. End of story.Spot on, Chris.

The only real way to reduce rent-seeking behaviour is to reduce the size of the "host" that is Government regulation.
And trhe only true way to do that is to progressively reduce Government's role in all areas that do not strictly require the heavy-handed presence of Government.

The smaller the Government, the better off we are as a nation. Just look at the resources wasted competing over regulatory advantage that should not even be there in the first place. Things like the deisel fuel rebate, while a darling of the coaltion should go - and ALL such rebates should go as a matter of policy. If there is no advantage to be gleaned from lobbying, then surely that lobbying would reduce.

The problem, of course, that even if a "small Government" party like the LDP ever came to power, the lobbyists would just go on holidays for a little and wait for the next BIg Government administration to reintroduce regulations/tariffs/rebates/subsidies that are the life blood of powerful lobby groups.

So Chris is correct. It will never go away, but just remember that if one supports Big Government, one also supports the machinations of powerful lobby groups. And history shows that those individuals/entities that are able to allocate the most resources to lobbying will come out on top. Consequently, supporting Big Government means giving the "big end of town" even more power and influence than they would otherwise have.

Anyone who claims to be egalitarian should support REDUCING the size of Government as increasing the size of Government consolidates the power of the already powerful.All four major parties are Big Government.

Chris is not, unlike many other Drum contributors, having a go at one party or another. Rather, he is raising a very important issue of which ALL parties are guilty.

I honestly cannot see where you think he says the coalition are any better than Labor. Remember, as always with statistics, he could have simply not included those numbers if his agenda was to pen a coalition marketing piece. The fact that he included those numbers speaks volumes about his consistency of thought unlike authors like MacCallum who support everything Labor and criticise everything coalition.

Chris is a slave only to his beliefs and values and he will call out any party/institution/entity that behaves contrary to them. His writing is a breath of fresh air.In particular, you should thank all those "uneducated" people who paid the vast majority of those taxes. The HELP system is FAR fairer. Why should some lawyer get his quals paid for by a labourer without having to pay a cent back? Students should have to pay it back. I did.

And as for the article, saying Gough, or anyone else for that matter, "listened to everyone" is absolute rot. Nobody can listen to EVERYONE. If one attempted to, NOTHING would ever happen. There is always someone is opposed to any measure or policy. What Mungo must mean is that he (dishonestly) made one THINK they were being "heard." 

I am not knocking Gough, just this sycophantic article from the head cheerleader of the Left Elite.You mean the (never done anything for anyone but we have a bunch of oil) Scandinavian countries and other socialist countries. Can you tell me some of their "innovations?"

If you do that for me, I will then return fire with American innovations if the Drum increases the word limit to 10,000,000 words.

Mediocrity? If that's what floats your boat, then hold back those with ability by setting the bar so low that everyone can jump over it.But, DM, not enough time on their hands to go and get a job and start paying tax. That's why they all like high taxes and high spending - they don't pay any tax and are always the (short term) beneficiaries of the Left's obsession with "tax more, spend more" or just "spend more and let the kids pay for it."Actually, mate, it was your mob booing our current PM? How is that not "degrading the majesty of the office?" Do tell.

The Libs were legitimately elected and even though they have deserted their classic liberal values, booing our PM debases the office of the PM. Especially when he/she is speaking at a funeral of another PM. Just like the singing when Thatcher died. Nobody does more to degrade those selfless enough to enter public life than the Left. Criticising policy is fine - I have a different issue with the current government almost on a weekly basis as they are valueless and without any kind of consistent ideology - but when ANY PM is speaking at another PMs funeral, those who would boo are the lowest of the low...and they just so happen to be from the Left."Appropriate response?" Hahaha. Yeah, those boos represented irrefutable logic. The fact that such savagery appeals to all you Lefties only makes the current bad government look somewhat re-electable.

I didn't want to vote for the Libs again, but after seeing the average IQ of the upper echelons of the ALP (hence the invite to such an event) I could not vote for the ALP/Greens coalition.

Oh, and I hope people like that are never at a a funeral of one of my loved ones. Becasue if anyone booed, I'd be on assault charges."Everone can make a difference." Sheesh, does Mungo think he is talking to pre-schoolers? An individual's wishes don't make a lick of difference. Only a fool would believe otherwise.

OK, Mungo, let's play your game. I am a Libertarian, both socially and economically. I would see Government budgets slashed (along with taxes), the removal of ALL prohibition of "sin" crimes and the jealous protection of all civil liberties. That is, legalising drugs, removing all excises on tobacco and alcohol and reinstating quaint protections like warrants PRIOR to search and seizure. How do you think I will go with that, Mungo? Will I be able to "make a difference?" No. Even with a strong financial backing, individuals can never make a difference. Ron Paul's tilt at the White House serves as a good example. By far the best suite of policies, but due to the irrationality and herd-mentality of humans, no one individual has the power to do anything. I believe Turnbull is another good example. From what I know of his values, he CANNOT support what the current Government is doing in the way of destroying freedom of the press, privacy etc but there is saying "just trust the Government and all of its employees." Why? Because an individual (even working from within) cannot change a thing.

So, all Gough's ideas (good and bad) were evidently the "vibe of the day" rather than Gough's doing. That is, if Gough and only Gough, believed strongly in his policies, they would have gone NOWHERE. And I defend his treatment of the Vietnamese on those grounds. The appalling treatment would have been at the behest of others, such as ASIO and other institutions. You know, the same institutions to which BOTH parties have just handed pretty much unfettered power in a practical sense.Yank, Lambie is not fit for high office. Just becasue you don't like Abbott, does not mean Lambie should be encouraged to do anything other than stand down. I mean, all you Laborites bleat on about the importance of education but then say Lambie is fit to be an Australian Senator. Which is it? Does intelligence and education matter or not? If you support Lambie being in a more senior position than 99.9999% of the population, then you CANNOT support spending more on education while we are in debt as it literally is just a piece of paper on the wall.  

This is the one thing about the Left I cannot tolerate. If Stalin said he hated Abbott, you all would be slapping him on the back and having drinks with him at the local. Ricky Muir generally supports the Libs, but again I find him incompetent and I feel he represents a failure of our democracy. But I differ from the Left in that I have a set of VALUES. These values are why I am by no means happy with Abbott Government. I don't support a "team", I support values. I support freedom, so I do not support the retention of metadata. Whereas, many Laborites bag the Libs for restricting freedom of the press but supported the ALP doing the same thing. I support NEITHER party restricting press freedom.

As close as I was to voting for the ALP before the Libs for the for the first time due to this Government not respecting liberal values, the ALP supporters showed their true colours at the Whitlam memorial - they booed Abbott (the current PM whether we like it or not) and our Greatest Ever PM - John Howard.

What was I thinking? After I saw what senior Labor people did when Thatcher died, I was disgusted. But equally reassured by the fact that Liberals only had good things to say about Whitlam. That is, they have a shred of decency, which is more thatn can be said for those that booed somoene INVITED to speak at a funeral. Despicable. Basically, ALP supporters just blindly look after their own and hate all others no matter what. So, as much as this Government has lied and abandoned its true liberal roots and "lurched to the Left" with it's trampling of indivdual freedoms, I will still be forced to put the Greens last and the ALP second last. I am not against all Labor policy, but their supporters showed us what they are really made of at the memorial for a great Australian, Gough Whitlam. And these aren't "feral" Labor supporters - they obviously have a bit of clout in the Party or they would not be at such an important event.

And Yank, supporting Labor and Lambie at the same time is not exactly a ringing endorsement for your beloved Labor Party.
This all about online piracy. As was the removal of all other protections rammed through recently.

Any terrorist operation would use a VPN to thwart data retention by Australian ISPs. ASIO know it. The Govenrment knows it. This however, will trap the majority of everyday Australians that, knowingly or not, download copyrighted content. And now they can locate premises that files have been downloaded to. Then, due to new legislation, they can raid those premises without a warrant and prosecute the individual who pays for that service - whether he/she was responsible for the downloading or not. They then have six months to show a court that they found infringing files and that the search and seizure will be retrospectively upheld. This could NOT be done a few months ago. And who benefits? Murdoch and other content providers.

Any justification due to non-existent terrorism is just a smoke screen. There's a possibility of terrorism? Yep. But with not one single attack on Australian soil, it would be like planning for an ice age in the Simpson Desert. It could happen, but it NEVER has.This is about online piracy, Zing.

Did you hear the Commissioner last night exlpicitly confirm as much? He has since retracted that statement. A lot like Gillard tried to retract the carbon tax lie. I just hope the electorate punish this far more dangerous Government as hard as we punished Gillard for her duplicity.

The difference here is, Gillard's lie threatened marginal manufacturing in Australia and had a slight impact on cost of living. This lie puts in jeopardy the wealth and/or freedom of many, many Australians. Remember, the owner of the intrernet connection will be prosecuted (like speeding fines). I am sure they will just issue massive fines and not use imprisonment, but the option is open to them and furthermore, anyone discussing punishments or any element of the Government's "operations" faces 10 years gaol, so I guess we'll never know what punishments are being doled out to inernet users.Yes, make noise while you can.

Once they start operations against online piracy, ANY discussion, including on here, could open one up to a prison sentence.

I wonder when Abbott is going to give us a choice of haircuts like his mentor Kim does with his subjects. I guess it will make us safer as we will be able to notice the terrorists as they will be the ones with different haircuts...unless of course, they change their haircut to look the same as one of the six permissible styles. Just like these laws being entirely useless where the terrorist/s sets up a $3 per month VPN that takes around 15 minutes. This will net ZERO organised terrorists, but many thousands of less sophisticated Aussies who download things off the internet without a rigorous confirmation of the source of those downloads (impossible in many instances).

We live in scary times - but it has nothing to do with terrorism.This problem of demand for labor will fix itself pretty soon.

As the boomers (who have most of the wealth) retire but still provide demand (via spending their ample wealth) there will be a major labor shortage.

That will not, however, decrease youth unemployment below what I call "intentional" unemployment. Probably around 5%but that is just a guess. Some people simply do not want a job, or at least they don't want any job they have the ability of performing.

I know the Left paint this picture that everyone on Newstart has an impervious work ethic, but this isn't always the case. Don't get me wrong, I do not support cutting people off Newstart (then they just get money through crime which if far less efficient than welfare payments). But it should just be noted that it is not a lack of jobs in a certain proportion of cases.

And as for the "rising up" that just misses the point entirely. Those who have the gumption and drive to "rise up" - CAN GET A JOB in most cases. But people who cannot be bothered or are too precious to do undesirable jobs are hardly going to "rise up" unless you are talking rising up out of the bean bag.

As I said, demographics will ensure that there is a lot of demand floating around with not many people left to do all the work. There will be plenty of jobs for able-bodied youngsters. But do they, say, want to work in aqed care? Do they want to take that job at a funeral parlour or as a pharmacy assistant or landscape gardener. All these jobs, just to name a few, will be in higher demand in coming years as baby boomers become less pohysically self-sufficent but are certainly financially secure. But no matter how high demand, youth unemployment will ALWAYS be higher as when we are young and have less commitments, we are far more likely to deal with a low income and enjoy the freedom of not having a job we hate. Look at your own life and I am sure that you were more cavalier when you were commitment-free. Once you have a family to support you then have a higher "crap job" threshold.Of course, ALL 15yos have a desire to work or stay at school. Not. Personally, I know of not one kid who cannot get into at least TAFE - BUT WANTS TO DO SO.

Mate, go down to a train station in a feral suburb and look at some of the youth there. This idea that our youth have no chance or opportunity is absolute rot. I will admit that some may study all night, but cannot get into Uni or TAFE etc, but I think more of them have "better things to do". I don't have a problem with youth having a few slack years on the dole, but I have a problem with everyone saying they are not provided opportunity.

I know mates who were (at the time) members of what we used to call Bob Hawke's Surf Team and now those same guys contribute heavily to the tax base as they are (very) gainfully employed. But when they were younger, they cared more about parties, girls and the swell the next morning. It's perfectly natural and should not be seen as alarming.

The problems arise if we cut these guys off the dole and then they turn to crime as criminal penalties (especially for property crimes like drug dealing) do have the potential to ruin the lives of our youth. So my solution is less hand wringing and wasting money on unwanted programs, and instead use the money to ensure these guys can still get the dole during their "slack years."But means testing benefits means it is NOT efficient. I know of employees that have rejected small pay rises due to means testing. Of course, a $100k rise would be OK as it would more than cover the loss of entitlements. But how often does that happen. If say, someone was on $78k and was offered another $2.5k ($1.5k after tax) but, by being over $80k, would mean the loss of many benefits, then that person would reject that increase as it would harm them in the short term. Yes, over time, any future increases would be worth it after "taking a bath" in the current year, however, many cannot afford that year of being worse off. So, they stagnate in terms of income. Whereas, under Howard, everyone got, say, the baby bonus, therefore people just tried to earn as much as they can. Whereas, if it was means tested, those just under the threshold would not want to slightly more if it disqualified them. 

Is it a coincidence that under Howard the real wages of "working class" people (bricking, sparkles, mechanics etc) grew at a faster rate than at any other time? I don't think so. Punishing people (taking away entitlements) for earning more and trying to better themselves is counterintuitive IF one wants to raise the living standards of working class people. I believe the statistics speak for themselves. And just anecdotally, do you know a poor trade? When I was younger tradies were certainly not as well off as they are now. But The policies of Rudd, Gillard and Abbott are doing all they can towards putting the working class back in their place.Excessive tax and spend is bad for the poor. If, of course, the "spend" is means tested. If Johnny Poor starts to earn OK money he loses more than gains in many situations. No Concession Card, no more benefits and higher taxes. As you know, it is salaried plebs who pay all the tax - and also those who consume (all of us). So Johnny Poor is paying more tax but is disqualified from all the benefits of said higher taxes. Whereas, if his brother Jack Poor stays earning nothing, he benefits more and more the heavier the tax and spend regime. So Johnny looks at Jack at says, stuff this, I need to earn less. And as we know, if a child is raised with both parents permanently on welfare, that child sees existing on welfare as normal.

If we really want to help the poor we either stop means testing a lot of benefits, a la Howard, or we simply tax less and spend less. Getting people hooked on welfare benefits nobody, except of course, those political parties whose success is inversely proportional to the average income of the electorate.This is the very essence of stupidity, I agree.

Especially, when the move is rejected by the Senate and the Australian people watch as the impost is paid by them over the next year and then Abbott will hand the coin straight back to the oil companies. Effectively, it will be a transfer payment from Aussie battlers directly into the pockets of the oil companies. Not a good look.

Who is advising Abbott? Shorten?Just another volume in the series of how this Government, like the previous one, is doing all that it can to ruin Howard's legacy of creating an environment that allowed the poor to rise out of their poverty.

You see, when the author says that ALP/greens should "have a say in how it is spent", he really means help keep them poor. For example, say that money is spent on more welfare or program's for the poor, that just means that as soon as someone earns enough to be above the poverty line, they are stopped in their tracks by heavy taxation. One is only unaffected should hey dare not to try to raise their lot in life. Howard provided relief for people who would not receive welfare etc. 

Hence, the undeniable statistic that the real wages of working class people growing faster during Howard's time in office. He also oversaw the rise of the "cashed up bogan", the term used by the Elite to denigrate those they see of not deserving of being "cashed up".

The poor do not want to be poor, so why punish people who rise above the poverty line with a heavy tax burden...unless, of course, you want to keep the poor right where they are. The reason Howard wanted to turn the poor into middle class is that it made them more likely to vote Liberal - back when the Liberals supported middle Australia. The ALP, on the other hand, want more poor people. This current Government, while they will get no love from the poor, still seem to be hell bent on hurting the middle class also. Howard's battlers have nowhere to turn right now, so they will surely return to the ALP, who have every interest in keeping them poor. To me, the poor were screwed the moment Australia turfed out the only Government in recent history that tried to help the poor rise out of poverty.Hold on, though.

If renewables are actually cheaper, then why can we not leave it to the free market? That is, with or without Government targets and other distortions, I would buy the cheapest electricity available, regardless of the source. So, I would happily use renewables if they were cheaper. So, why do we need Government? Just start generating electricity using renewables and, if cheaper than traditional generators, then they will put the traditional generators out of business.

I am not being facetious, I genuinely want to know why an inherently cheaper model requires Government assistance at all.Absolutely.

Australia Farm?The worst part of the fuel fraud, is that he knows it will be rejected and he will be handing a few billion to the oil companies. Now, they will pass the extra cost on to the consumer, but how can they hand back the billions to the consumer? They can't. Abbot knows this. So, this is not just a tax increase (which would be a broken promise anyway). Instead of this money being taken from Australian families and used to improve the budget position, it will be taking money directly off battlers and handing it straight to oil companies. As long as the media covers it sufficiently, the day they hand Aussies' money (billions) back to oil companies, their fate will finally be sealed - if it is not already. So ALP/Greens supporters should actually be happy with how brazen this mob are at hurting Australian families. He is gifting Howard's battlers back to the ALP.

On my side, I hope that a couple of terms in opposition help to clean the Liberals out so that they become more classic liberal than the ultra conservative rabble that they are at the moment. Not that I'll enjoy the hard Labor we will cop for 6-9 years, but if it takes that kind of pain to see a more liberal Liberal party, then so be it.I agree with both of you.

However, we need to point out more strongly that the ALP are along for the ride. Therefore, the only thing between our current society and Tony Jong Un is the Liberal Democrats. This excellent article by David shows that he really is the only person in the parliament that can see this. 

And these powers will not just be used for "foreign fighters". Remember, there has NEVER been a terrorist attack on Australian soil. NEVER. Rather, the recent TPP with China, the US and others, has further exposed the current Government's war on downloading from certain websites, whether those downloads are freeware or protected by copyright. There WILL be cops kicking doors in under the cover of night to arrest families. Even Turnbull has said these people (again, the ENTIRE family even though it is quite impossible to know whether it was Mum, Dad or the kids) are stealing and therefore criminals. Also, no mens rea will be required. That is, whether or not the person who downloaded the file knew it was illegal. It will be kind of what they have done with speeding fines, the person who pays for the internet connection will be presumed guilty unless they can prove innocence. So, to all those older people out there who think they are safe - I say you are not if you EVER have kids or grandkids (or any guests at all really) stay at your place or have access to your internet connection.

They are yet to announce sentencing parameters, however I assume they will be extremely large fines. Does anyone remember the fines listed at the start of of a tape when you put it in your VCR? I think it was up to $50k - and this was late 80s early 90s. I am sure they will have the fines at six figures today.

You see, along with meta data retention and a complete lack of guaranteed freedoms (a la a US styled constitution) we are now absolutely no different to North Korea. And if you include our faux democracy as a point of difference, I pity you. BOTH the libs and the ALP support this. One cannot vote their way out of this oppression any more than a NK citizen can vote Kim Jong Un out of power. The ONLY difference is that up until 2013, our Government did not exploit these holes in our "freedom". Now they are, and they have the full support of the ALP.

So, short of winning a Green Card lottery to become a US citizen, we have to sit back and take it OR vote for the LDP. However, I cannot see a party going from 0 seats in the House and 1 Senator to a majority in both houses.
No, Zing.

They are not self-inflicted. We were entirely lied to and if we went by previous Liberal Government, we still could not have expected this.

What you are saying is that because the Libs won the election, ANYTHING they do is self inflicted. They could invade NZ and begin a program of genocide and that would be "self-inflicted" by the Australian electorate.

The other thing is that we really do not have a choice, other than the LDP. The ALP support all of this. And the ALP/Greens have more "right" to do so. They are the "Big Government" parties. At they hacve positive externalities like welfare, health and scoial justice. The libs are "Big Government" without any of the positives of that, just the negatives.

Zing, I feel sorry for guys who just think that everything "your" party does is cool. Envious at the same time, as an inability to think critically must provide for serenity. I have never voted anything but Liberal, but now would vote the ALP in front of the Libs without a second thought. The Liberal Democrats are the only option if you want Australia to stay free.Yes, they can very easily apply to people downloading.

All that is required is that the operation to punish said downloaders be deemed an SIO (I could be wrong on  that anagram) which then let's the Government do as it pleases.

If not to pursue downloaders and other prevalent activity (busting a Uni students for drugs etc) what is all this for? Oh that's right, the deluge of terrrorist attacks on Australian soil. Sorry.Greg, I think the press are (understandably) scared of the current Government. If you were an editor, would you want your paper to be raided? I think. This is why the no Chinese publication criticises the CP directly.

And who knows if they'll make the law against journalists reporting on an SIO retrospectively? This Government should be seen as very dangerous indeed. Lachlan Murdoch has the US to protect him. Other outlets do not share the same immunity.That won't help next election, mate.

Lifelong Liberal voter here, that will not vote for the Libs again for a LONG while. Not until EVERY current cabinet member is no longer on the  Liberal front bench would I even consider supporting them again. So expect to see a name change for the LDP. Because, after Gillard/Rudd the Liberals had some brand value. Now, not so much. No, the Liberal Democrats would be repulsed to be confused with THESE Liberals. In days gone by, it was different. Howard's Libs pretty much supported freedom and individual liberties in a responsible manner. Today....nup. These Liberals have done so much to hurt indivdual freedom they make the Greens look like Libertarians.The LDP stand for freedom. Therefore, they would NOT want to be associated with the Liberals (or LNP which is a different entity again).

If David got elected due to "mistake", I would say the Liberals got in due to "misrepesentation". No tax increases....ummm....misrepresentation. And what bigger  misrepresentation can there be? They were prepared to lambast Gillard for lying about a far smaller tax. These Libs are in power due to fraud, which has to be preferrable to "mistake", no?Agree entirely, Stu.

In days gone by, classic liberals had a lot more say in the Liberal Party. Not so much anymore, unfortunately. Someone like Turnbull is more classic liberal, whereas Bernardi is more Conservative. And clearly, in today's Liberal Party we have the Bernardis have all the say and the Turnbulls are being increasingly marginalised.

Sda, but true.Perfectly articulated their politics. Well done. Vote LDP.Nooooooooo. Please, Charles do not accuse David of being a Liberal Senator.

He is a Liberal DEMOCRAT Senator and while the liberals used to have a modicum of respect for liberty and human rights, alas, they no longer do. They are just a nastier version of the ALP/Greens. 

The only party that develops policy to support indivdual freedom is the Liberal Democrats Party. That is, the LDP. Please do not read this and think the Liberals are trying to protect indivdual liberties. On the contrary, this anti-freedom legislation is Liberal legisaltion. It's Brandis' baby. Yes, the ALP have gone along for the ride, but this is more Liberal than ALP. I know it is shocking and not normally expected of the Liberals, but this is why many of us see this as the worst, most dishonest Government since Federation. They have lied about EVERYTHING except the Carbon Tax and the Mining Tax. Yes, I am happy the Carbon Tax is gone, but I would rather an unfair tax than an unfair SOCIETY where I am looking over my shoulder day and night.

Basdically, this legislation allows the cops to do whatever they please to ANYONE. They could kick your Grandma's door in at 2am without any reason to do so and there is nothing anyone could do about it. In fact, if you even whinged on Facebook, you'd be locked up for up to 10 years. Think about, then do something about it. Vote for the Liberal Democrats, not the Liberals. They are now so far apart on policy that it's not funny.Not Liberal, but liberal. The capitalisation refers the (fictional) name owned by Abbott's party. The lower-case version is an adjective and is appropriate to the Liberal Democrats.Yeah mate, it will be a relief once all those terrorists attacks on Australian soil start to reduce or are even eliminated. Oh, wait a minute....You mean those attacks thwarted under the old rules? Therefore, would not logic dictate that these new rules are entirley unnecessary?Not just that, now that they are going after "illegal" downloaders, you will see many an average family ruined financially if not incarcerated. The latter is less likely as that costs the Govenrment money, so they will likely just take the all of that families assets. What a surprise!! 

But just like China/NK etc, we will never hear about it as to even blog or Tweet about the neighbours being dragged off in the middle of the night for downloading Game of Thrones will see you in prison for up to 10 years. Let alone it going on air or to print. It will be just like China. You will hear rumours about what happened to the Jones' down the road, but will not be able to find out. You think that is hyperbole? Please show me what part of the legisaltion would PREVENT that? Other than the Government's assurances to "trust them". Like, trust them not to break election promises. Hahaha. Last week's broken promise is the removal of the Child Care Rebate by the way. What will this week's be? 

Are these Liberals so out of touch as to expect us to trust them after all their broken promises (how is it that I got an income tax increase after being promised no tax increases hmmmm)? How does the saying go? Fool me once, shame on you, fool me dozens of times....They have the ability to conduct searches and detain people BEFORE the warrant is issued. In fact, they can search and detain then they have SIX MONTHS to have that search and detention retrospectively authorised under this legislation.

And who, sfter being raided by the federal police is going to challenge that search six months later? I would and you probably would, but many, many people in the community would be too scared to after such an horrific experience.
But you would say "the nice police would never break the law".

I suggest you (legitimately)download a series called Blue Murder. And that just chronicles some stuff that we know about. Unfortunatley police are just as flawed as the rest of us - one could argue even more so as the unfettered power of the job can attract those who would seek to abuse that power. And the more we take away checks on that power, the more attractive the job becomes to those who seek unchecked power.I am not worried about me. I have a VPN set up to protect my children from the prying eyes of Government employees - I do not trust any and all public servants. And any terrorist with half a brain would do the same and ASIO know it. They want these powers to punish less sophisticated pirates - at least that is a problem that exists, not an imagined problem like terrorism on Australian soil.

Also, don't the AFP have SIX MONTHS to drum up some eveidence? And in the intervening period it cannot be publicised whatsoever. 

For example, Grandma house is ransacked TODAY. The Government agency has SIX MONTHS to apply for the warrant, during which time ANY members of her family, friends or even the media who talk about the violation at all are committing a crime. Am I wrong?And neither should they.

What Warwick is forgetting is the concept of reverse mortgages. Ok, say one only owns one house and then pays that house off prior to retirement. Yes, I agree that if you sell that house, you need to buy another one. As opposed to those have more than one that can sell that house and use that money as they please. However, banks now offer reverse mortgages where the bank "buys" the house back over time with regular instalments. The higher the value of the house, the larger these instalments. Also, one can sell that house and then rent accommodation in their retirement, thereby providing some income to live on. I implore people under 45 to not be fooled into thinking they will be able to live on their super as the Baby Boomers have been allowed to do. The Boomers are able to access their super early and can take it a lump sum. This will NOT Be the case in 20-30 years. 

I know for me that my super will not be accessible until I am at least 70 - and I only see that date being pushed back further as the Aged Pension is slowly pushed back out of existence (except for probably the genuinely destitute). So, my plan is, to allow me to retire before I am 75-80, to enter into a reverse mortgage arrangement and live off that. My kids can have my substantial (albeit useless to me unless I come across the Holy Grail) super balance when I "move on". So, the value of my one house will definitely impact on my material standard of living in my later years. The higher the value of my one house, the more I can actually access at, say, 65. Anyone in their 30s now who thinks they will live long enough to spend their super is rather optimistic about one's longevity. Taking super in a lump sum will be abolished in the next 10-20 years. Rather, one willbe compelled to roll it into a regular pension and not at an aggressive pay down rate as the Government will want to ensure nobody ever "runs out". I concede that it will form part of one's estate, but very few will actually be allowed to draw all their super in their lifetime. So, our kids won't get the family home as an inheritance, but they will instead receive a largely untouched super balance. Therefore, for many of us under 45, a marked fall in property prices will translate a commensurate drop in standard of living in our retirement - whether we have one house or ten.Yes, but reverse mortgages (or borrowing against an unencumbered property) allows you to access the increase in value in your house. You are correct in that it is not strictly income in an earnings sense, but it means you can progressively access the wealth "tied up" in the family home to pay for living expenses etc.Gaz, google "reverse mortgage". The higher the value of the property, the larger the income you would receive. That is how you can use your one owned house to provide an income in your later years.True, Yank. But he could have mentioned that Abbott has done nothing on the issue - to make it better or worse. Negative gearing was a Labor policy. And I believe a good one as it fully captures your expenses (the interest on a loan) that you incur in order to generate the rental income on the asset. Finance costs are deductible all other businesses. Interest is as real a cost as wages, rent, utilities etc.

It is simple demographics. If you enact policy that hurts Baby Boomers (a majority of the voting population) you can expect to be turfed out at the next election. I guess they are being rewarded fror having less children than their parents. That is why both extensions to the retirement age will only apply to Gen X and younger.

And it doesn't just apply to super. I note that all aspects of our society have followed the wishes of the Baby Boomers. Hence, the generally liberal policies that existed when the Boomers were young, and now we are experiencing Nanny State policiers because, well, the voting majority are at an age where "nannying" comes natural. From reduced speed limits (the Boomers would not have suffered those in the 70s, 80s as they were still young) to runanway "sin" taxes as Baby Boomers give up their vices (as most do when they get a little older) and now seek to exploit those younger people who still do.

I don't blame indivdual Boomers. It is just a demograhic reality. Policy will probably become more "Nanny State" for the next 10-20 years and then slowly turn back towards liberal policy as the demographics of the electorate change.Yes, they do not want to own in "the sticks" as someone like me does. They would rather live in the inner ring which, of course, is prohibitively expensive to buy into. Do you think your average New Yorker expects to own a Manhattan apartment overlooking the Park. No. But they can still afford to buy houses within an hour by car of Manhattan.

The first home buyer stats are relatively low also due to young people making up a smaller demographic than previously. And those few young people are deciding to defer having children and live in apartments etc that are "amongst it". 

One can build in say outer Perth or Melbourne for as little as $350k. With two incomes and no children, that is not hard to do financially. But lifestyle obviously matters more for those who want to live in the inner ring of capital cities.While I agree, I think the fact that no gaol time was given would be more hurtful to that poor girl and her family.I still prefer registers than no registers. As you can see from the post, the guy did not do time. So if they are not locked up, they can at least let us know where they will be so we can do our best to avoid him. Remember, the perps identity would be repressed in the proceedings, so a register is the only way to know the truth - every other crime is public record.You are questioning the victim? That she received a paltry few thousand. I could not give a proverbial about the perpetrator being autistic. He did the deed and society should take no further risks that he ruin another girls life. And I stand to gain by him being on a register (if he has to be let out in the first place). By the sound of your post he did not even go to gaol (which is truly shocking) - and people like me continue to pay his "benefits". So, how does the register benefit me? Well, if he moved into my street, I would move away. It is that simple. People like you can still ignore the register - gee, you can even have him babysit for you - but people like me can use that information to protect my family. End of story. What is wrong with the community knowing the truth?No, don't you know if the Government make around $20 per packet of cigarettes, then they are not harmful. Haha. I don't know how Big Health supporters sleep at night. Is their conscience as clear as their annual MRI? I don't think so.Also, alcohol is too popular. You see, they have to first make the target group a minority BEFORE they start exploiting the source of revenue. A great case in point is Rudd's "alcopops" tax. Now, everyone knows beer and wine (especially cheap wine) are responsible for far more damage for our most severely affected citizens. How many alcoholics waste money on aleady expensive and relatively diluted "alcopops"? How many indigenous communities are torn apart by people drinking fancy little Vodka and Lemon drinks? Whereas how problem alcoholics drink wine (cask especially) or cheap beer or cheap straight spirits?

Now, if it was about harm minimisation, one would tax the most damaging products ranges, no? So why the alcopops tax when all it did was make young people turn to mixing their own (usually far stronger than pre-mix). I will tell you. It is because people who drink such products make up a small minority of total alcohol consumers. That is, alcopops consumers are a small minority. Hence the tax will not be unpopular amongst an invariably selfish and short-sighted electorate that basically has no problem with increasing taxes as long as THEY do not pay them, despite the inequity of such taxes. The is despite the fact that one day, these same voters may be in a minority and be taxed unfairly, too. Unlike me, they do not see it as a dangerous precedent.

Oh, and I completely agree with your assertion re "real casues". If you look at someone who drinks heavily, smokes tobacco, eats poorly, has a family history of heart disease and rarely exercises, if they die of a massive heart attack it will be represented in "smoking related deaths" even though there are potentially other reasons. That is, had that person smoked, but had a good diet, no family history of heart disease, never drank alcohol and exercised regularly, would that heart attack have occurred? Despite Big Health's assertions to the contrary, there really is no way to tell. This is because Big Health is only interested in justifying trax increases - and as I explained above, the tax base needs to be in a minority, so they know alcohol cannot be taxed to the same extent - so where is the financial benefit in ascribing a death to alcohol? I would suggest that the latest target, sugar, will begin to be seen as the reason for ill-health and premature death more and more in future as Governments seek to tax sugar - and there are less people who smoke, so that "cause" will be less and less applicable - unless they do as you suggest and put it down to that time the patient walked within 5m of a smoker - which I would not put past them.They are not communicable diseases and also obesity is a FIRST WORLD PROBLEM.

The WHO applying resources to obesity is like the UNHCR allocating resources to misogyny in Australia. There are far more pressing issues for third world country than obesity and even tobacco. Tobacco kills relatively slowly. It certainly does not kill children. Do you know how many children die each year due to communicable diseases like malaria? Or even malnutrition? Tell me how "bad food" taxes will help malnutrition in the third world? The fact is, cheap, high energy density foods would probably help many in the thrid world. 

I think many in the poorest countries would be stoked to die at 60 from a heart attack, rather than not make it to their teens due to communicable disease or malnutrition.But the WHO would not receive anywhere near what it does if it did not "cooperate" with Governments and support their revenue raising endeavours. It has nothing to do with health and everything to do with with providing Governments with an ability to increase tax revenue in a way that the majority are happy with. The WHO would get less funds if they came out and told the truth about what really kills the majority of people in third world countries. What REALLY sees them with a life expectancy a fraction of what it is in first world countries. If it were tobacco and obesity, which are more prevalent in the First World, then why does the First World enjoy a longer life expectancy (and we did even hen smoking rates were high)?Yes, heart disease kills more in the First World. But should we be applying scarce resources to extending Australalian lives a couple of years to, say, 90, or lift the third world's life expectancy. It is a value judgement, of course. But if we are trying to improve life expectancy in the third world then tobacco and obesity are pretty much irrelevant. To think, when I was younger, kids in Africa were starving. Well, I guess, according to the WHO, Geldof and Co were TOO successful as they see obesity as the biggest threat. Honestly, if you believe that, then no amount of facts will convince you otherwise. Thew WHO are serving their masters that want to tax "bad foods". It is so painfully obvious.Excellent article, as always, Chris.

You make a very good point. But the answer is quite simple - there is no money in Ebola - whereas increased tobacco excise brings in billions for the WHO. It really is as simple as that.

And on obesity, they are helping to establish the foundations for sugar,salt and fat taxes. The first step, however, is to get the public onside. Last week (could have been the week before) I heard on the radio about a "study" that showed drinking sugary drinks reduces one's life expectancy to the same degree as smoking tobacco.

I think you'll find that they have sucked the tobacco honey pot dry and they are seeking to move on to "green fields" sources of revenue like sugar, salt and fat. When you stop and think about how much just a a sugar excise alonewould raise, it is easy to see why obesity is their new focus. And we all know that third world countries that require a body like WHO REALLY struggle with obesity - NOT. The fact is the WHO, should not waste resources on obesity as it is generally only rich countries that suffer from widespread obesity and these countries should fund measures on their own.

The WHO should be defunded to the extent they focus on obesity and tobacco, but I know it will not be as it is funded by the bodies that generate billions from it's "recommnedations", that is Governments around the World. Especially as greedy Govenrments are desperately trying to find new ways to raise revenue, the WHO be focussing more and more on obesity. I am no medical professional, but here is my prediction as to WhO recommendation to reduce obesity - sugar, salt and fat taxes. Time will tell if I am right or wrong. And the tide is moving pretty quickly on this. I can plainly see the advertisements softening up the electorate like the "are you sure you want fries with that" campaign and the "anti-sugary drinks" campaign. They will continue to poll the electorate on food taxes until uch point as the propaganda campaign sees the majority supporting such taxes, then they'll get their snouts in the trough.You think tobacco and Maccas are responsible for the shameful life expectancy in thrid world countries? Really? When did you start your tenure at the WHO?Haha. Touche.

But you did not address my point. Even, say, 30-40 years ago when smoking rates were over 50% and we were still obese (and the US more so) Australians and Americans could still be expected to live into their late 70s (men) and early 80s (women). Whereas, those in the third world generally smoked far less tobacco and obesity was almost unheard of among the overwhelming majority.

So what I am saying is, focus on those things that prevent a third world citizen seeing their 20th birthday first. Then we can worry about them being overweight or smoking. You see, every dollar spent on tobacco and/or obesity in the third world, means one less dollar for malaria, malnutrion, disentry, typhoid and, of course, ebola (however that has only killed a fraction of what other conditions do) along with many other serious diseases that take people far earlier in life than obesity or tobacco.No, a Federal Minister should be held to the same standard which his/her pay reflects. And considering these poor souls get less than your average project manager, how dare you ask for such a high standard. Go to a contruction site, mate. Go anywhere in the real world. And if an impression of Arnie is the worst thing you hear, I'd be very surprised. 

And by the way, the standard will only continue to plummet. Think about it. You're a highly talented kid. Would you go into politics? Why? For th money? Hahahaha (unless you are corrupt). Again, I know lawn mowers who paid their houses off before 40. Abbott still has a mortgage. Or would it be the public adoration. Hahahahah. That was even funnier than the first. No, one can simnply no longer justify a move to into politics, especially when such a miserable existence is also pushed on to your family - see Abbott's daughter, Gillard's father.

It is article like this that even further make it so depressing. If people really think this comment means Cormann hates women (misogyny), I truly despair for the future of this country.But it should be the case that Government should be able to reduce handouts where an institution clearly does not need them. Making investment decisions based on worthiness of company rather than return is the domain of those with MORE THAN ENOUGH. Do you think you will be entitled to the pension if you retire with $10m in the bank? Of course not. Nor should you. So why is it OK for a public institution to act so arrogantly when many other already under funded institutions, like our ABC, are being gutted. By the way, if the ABC was so wealthy that they could afford to invest in their pet causes or other philanthropic pursuits, then I would advocate that they too have enough money that their public funding could be cut. You see, one cannot claim they need to take money from struggling taxpayers and then say that they can afford to not even ATTEMPT to maximise return, rather they would prefer "ethical" investment even though they may generate a smaller return. Talk about Government picking winners and losers.

This is just more evidence of a Government that has its priorites all wrong. Gutting the ABC while allowing such an application of scarce public funds by the ANU is ridiculous. The really confronting thing is that the ANU thing they are doing the RIGHT thing by taking more and more money from taxpayers while on the other hand saying "hey, financial return on our investments doesn't matter." If the latter does not matter THEY DO NOT NEED MORE MONEY.And yes, Luke. If this was about them finding finacial advisors they believe that a company's earnings were going to be lower due to unsustainability, that would be fine. As that would mean they were genuinbely trying to minimise the amount they take from taxpayers.

However, if that was the goal, they would not have instructed an advisors that specialises in "ethical" investments.If the decisions were based on finacial returns being low in an industry, that's be fine. They were not and are not. Even if Big Tobacco was returning 50% a year (it doesn't but I use it to illustrate) the Uni would rather invest in something they agree with that will return less. If they are in such a luxurious position (to forego the extra funds) then they should be able to take less public money and invest in the higher returning investments that they may not necessarily agree with.Not many of my fellow Atheists advocate banning of religion.

Like many things, I think the World would be FAR better off without religion, however, as a Libertarian, I support your right to believe in and practice anything you want that does not diectly affect the ability of others to do the same.

But I do feel there needs tobe more separation of Church and State. You see, a substance like marijuana is only illegal due to "sinful" nature and that it was not contemplated in the Bible - as opposed to the "blood of Christ". Nothing to do with the harm caused or a rational reason as to why someone who grows and supplies marijuana in its natural form can go to gaol for life and have all their assets seized. THAT is where I become INTOLERANT of religion. Because it is at that point that irrational beliefs (religion) cross over into real life with real people losing reall assets and going to real gaol etc. Same with policies against contraception in Africa etc. HIV is a real virus that kills real people.

If religion was separated from public policy, I have no issue. Where it dictates poilicy, I have a problem.I reckon escaping into any good fiction serves the same purpose as that of "prayer."

And please, do not criticise video games by calling them intrusive and consuming. It is just fun. Yes, they are based on fantasy, but so is the premise underlying the entire Catholic Church. Furthermore, we did not need a Royal Commission into the damage video games has done to our kids.

I encourage my kids to play video as I do so myself. It is informative, engaging at the same time as being entertaining.But they rose the most under Howard.

And what should be more important to an egalitarian, is that the growth was among those segments traditonally at the lower end of the spectrum. Hence the term "cashed up bogans" that the Elitists like to throw around quite a bit.Oh yes, listening. Where is your point of action then? Taking Kiev. Or would you let him go further west before doing ANYTHING to even make him think twice.

But listen away. Apparently, Vlad listens very closely to his domestic critics - then locks them up.At least do what your Putin has been doing at the Ukrainian border.

That is, amass Western troops (from a coalition) around Crimea and Sevastapol. NBot a bullet would have need been fired. The presence would have served as enough of a deterrent. You see, I just think Putin is taking advantage of the widely recognised "war fatigue" that US/UK voters (and leaders) were suffering.

What people with your attitude of "listen to him" are doing is REWARDING his aggression. Should we also "listen" to ISIS because they do despicable things? 

And no, I pay taxes and we have military personnel to carry out tasks required to sustain our National Security.

But your question proves my original post abovet. What you are saying is "what can we do?" That is EXACTLY what Putin is thinking. And he has answered that correctly...NOTHING. We have already started on the path tro appeasement. The more you let them get away with, the more they will expect to be able to get away with moving forward.

But it does not mean we have to "listen" to him. But whether Putin's Russia is something we should emulate is, of course, a matter of opinion. I dare say many on here would prefer the Russian. Just not me.How the Left can defend Putin and criticise Abbott has got me. I do not like some of the Authoritarian measures of the Abbott Government, but they seem downright Libertarian next to Putin. Have a closer look at how minorities have got it in Russia.Dude, I vote LDP. Previously Liberals second, but not after the draconian attacks on many indivdual freedoms. Although the ALP supported the Laws, national security is always like that. I give the ALP the benefit of the doubt that the laws would not look the same under the ALP. Therefore, I will effectively be voting Labor - ie putting them second to the LDP who do not stand a chance of forming government, because, alas, the general public are too scared to be free - they seek to be told how to think as they do not want to have to think for themselves - group think is FAR safer. I have no problem with that, that is democracy - and democracy means that mediocrity (by definition) will ALWAYS win through.Words? Maybe.

But I reckon invading sovereign countries is a bigger contributor to wars. What was it that precipitated England and France declaring war on Germany in 1939? Words? Hardly.Yes, good point.

And when I criticise Islam for it's attitudes to women, it is thge Left that shout me down the hardest. I support everyone's right to absolute freedom of religion, however I make no apologises for my disapproval of Islam - yet the Lefties are usually the first to the "racist" buzzer - even though I criticise a religion/culture and NOT a race.You sound like you are in the exact same quandry as I.

Vote LDP. However, they probably won't form Government so you'll still have to pick (and effectively vote for) a second preference. Political options for us really sucks ATM.Oh yeah, he has just never been exposed to such things. It is not like he knows about liberal deemocracy and entirely rejects it or anything. No he seeks to be "enlightened". Poor Vlad.Russia IS a superpower. They have almost three times as many deployable nuclear warheads than the US - daylight is third. Due to this Russian military supremacy, Putin has persistently flipped the bird to the US and the West. Simply because he knows he can. Basically, Putin can do as he pleases and we all know it. I mean, despite hollow threats from an intimidated West, he annexed parts of sovereign countries with no ZERO pushback. Yep, that's right, Crimea is still Russian territory despite Western hand wringing. And here's me thinking sanctions would have induced a decision to hand Crimea back to Ukraine (sarcasm). He again showed the West an appropriate level of respect over MH17. That is, zero. And now Obama is even sucking back up to Russia by sharing intelligence with them over ISIS. 

Short of invading the US mainland, he can do whatever he pleases without fear of Western action. Even then, I reckon a Democratic Whitehouse would come to a negotiated settlement. Say, let him have Alaska and Canada if he promises (with a cherry on top) to not be mean anymore. Not a superpower? I think when a nation is not answerable to any other nation, then that pretty much makes them not just A superpower, but THE superpower. 

I am not saying Putin has a "bloodlust". Rather, Putin's Russia is just doing whatever they please, whatever they see is in their interest. Russia wanted Crimea, it took it. Such are the privileges of being the most powerful country on Earth.

The program of sanctions? Hahaha. These sanctions do not even touch the guys making the decisions. Newsflash, these guys have already stolen billions from the Russian people. The sanctions only hurt the Russian in the street. Oh, the naivete of it all. I say to the author that we are lucky our forebears were not so naive (or cowardly) in years gone by. For we would still be waiting for the "sanctions" to drive the Hun or the Nazis back. 

But the scariest part of this piece is the "we may even learn something." I am sorry, I have seen all I need to of Putin's Russia. Thanks, but no thanks. Although Putin is the most powerful man in the World, I sure as hell would not want to be an average Russian. Especially, if I was a woman, or an LGBTI, or ethnic, or have political beliefs inconsistent with Putin.

I do agree that these are rational, decisive acts based on upholding his (repugnant) values and his vision for Russia and the World. I remember when we used to have leaders like that in the West - do you think Thatcher would have let Putin run roughshod across Europe? Hardly not. Indeed, if the West had a strong leader among it, I don't think Putin would have invaded the Ukraine. These are calculated moves to exploit weakness. No weakness = no aggression.Yes, but the US do not try to annex those territories as their own. Indeed, I believe Iraq and Syria would be better off if they did occupy, but that is another matter entirely. I think we may just find that a World with Russia as its superpower may just be a little harsher than when the US had a hand in international affairs. I guess, we'll see. But, merits of either nation aside, Russia is more powerful than the US and the West. Put it this way, if I was a small country bordering Russia, I would do as Russia says as the West will do nothing for the country (see Ukraine) whereas Putin will follow through.Absolutely, Yank.

Can I count on you voting LDP in the House and Senate in 2016?

Unfortunately, too many special interests have their own reasons to oppose freedoms and therefore, the LDP get not nearly enough support. To most people, freedom is great until it upsets their own oppressive tendencies. It all stems from fear. It is only the bravest of us that can countenance true freedom. 

Hence, the US being the land of the free and the home of the brave. 

Legalising marijuana? Saving billions and minimising harm? And that is just a recent example. Freedom of speech, one of their oldest GUARANTEED freedoms? Too scary for most who would have their own interests threatened by critics. Freedom for LGBTI marriage? Again, too scary for those who see it as a threat to heterosexual marriage.

It is easy to oppress others different to you, it is far harder to allow others to be free to be in control of their own destiny.As a Thatcherphile, you won't hear me defending Thatcher haters much, but their hate had NOTHING to do with her GENDER and ALL abour her AGENDA. Certian unions despised her because of her policy, not because she was a woman. It was really just coincidence that the person who had the biggest cojones among Tories at the time was Maggie. The Unions had to be stopped and she did it because she was STRONG and that lead to the hate. They were comfortable with the status quo, she challenged that and prevailed.

Oh, what a great leader she was...but I digress. Back to my point which was that Maggie was not a victim of sexism, rather just being reformist. She was even stronger than our greatest PM, Howard. Ultimately, he blinked when stared down by the MUA. She would never have. Kudos to Howard for at least trying to do something about our waterfont. It is miles beyond Abbott - Thatcher had more spine in her little finger than Abbott has. Does it therefore make me a misandrist that I dislike Abbott? I dislike his agenda.

People seem to forget that Gillard got into her position due to people nopt being happy with Rudd. That is, it was always going to be hard following the Howard years. Real wages growing and growing, benefits flowing to average Aussie families etc. Then the GFC hit as Rudd came in. Of course Rudd was going to cop some heat after honeymoon. Labor got scared and installed Gillard. As she only just formed Government through the treacherous acts of two "independents" with bruised egos, she had to introduce a Carbon Tax and other highly unpopular policies (higher taxes generally coupled with cutting of benefits. The Carbon Tax move was political incompetence as the Greens really had no leverage - what? Are they going to side with the coalition? How naive was Gillard that? And ultimately, it was the CT that got her.

I know that is why I disliked her and I equally disliked Rudd. I was simply far better off under Howard policy than Rudd/Gillard policy. Further, I dislike the Greens the same under Milne as I do under Brown. That is, I despise Greens economic policy and what it could mean for our economy.

Seriously, this sexism debate is so overcooked. It is simply someone trying to use an easy excuse for their own unpopularity. Australians are far from sexist. Again, if we are so sexist, why is J Bishop the most popular Cabinet member? I'll tell you that is has ZERO to do with her gender and a LOT to do with her portfolio. If she was Treasurer (budget), AG (anti-freedom laws) or PM (both), then she would not be so popular because Liberal policy in these areas is ridiculously incompetent. That is what the vast majority of us care about. Not someone's gender. 

People who cry sexism are usually just trying to find excuses for their own poor performance.Oakshott and Windsor, mate. But hey, when Labor/Greens are elected in either Lyne or New England in the coming years, I will admit that I was wrong. If, however, those two seats do not become Labor/Greens seats, will you agree that those two did fail to represent the wishes of their electorate and in that sense, betrayed their constituents. The matter cannot be reolved by you or I, it can only be determined by the cvoters of those two seats. And how long would be enough? I would say 6 elections. If, after 18 years, Labor/Greens have not taken those seats, it is clear that those particlualr voters aren't that rapt with the ALP/Greens (for better or worse, I am not judging which party's policy would be better for those seats) and that Oakshott and Windsor did in fact betray their constituents. Whether or not they felt the ALP would be better for their seats, a REPRESENTATIVE democracy is supposed to be about representing one's electorate. If one does not agree with one's constituents, one should not put forward one's candidacy to represent those constituents. As it would be equally wrong for Adam Bandt to put his hand up to represent some ultra-conservative seat in rural QLD, and it would be equally wrong for Corey Bernardi to represent the seat of Melbourne. And if either of those contrary situations arose, then Bernardi would be betraying his constituents if he voted against, say, gay marriage. As Bandt would be betraying his constituents by supporting it.

Windsor and Oakshott knew their constituents did not want them to side with the ALP, but they did so anyway. THAT is the betrayal.Yes, but you are probably referring to "soft" sexism. That is, your males expecting you to do the "housework", prepare dinner, do the ironing etc. That is just males being lazy, rather than sexism, in my opinion. I personally think some people have a higher tolerance for filth than others - so Mum cleans up little Johnny's room, not out of duty, but rather due to her not wanting to live in filth. My wife cleans up mykids' rooms for that reason - whereas I would make them live with their untidiness - as it is their room.

While that is still sexism it pales into insignificance when measured against "hard" sexism. That is, where women are treated in an appalling manner as they are viewed as somehow inferior to men, chattels to be owned and controlled by males. Examples include, honour killings, female circumcision, not being allowed to be educated, not being allowed to drive or vote, not being allowed to question the males in their lives, arranged marriages, not be allowed to divorce etc.

I know from experience, that my mother did most of the chores, dinner etc, however, when it came down to it, she had the final say on matters, not my father. And he dared not answer her back (none of us did). I know that is purely anecdotal, but most Aussie families from the same peiod (late 70s onwards) were very similar.

I am not saying everything is perfect in Australia - it cannot be as human beings live here - but I cannot think of too many societies where things are better for women both on a day-to-day level and also on a "big picture" level.

So, I stand by my assertion that Australians are far from sexist.Ran away to Australia? Mate, my father was born here and my mother came out in '56 as an English migrant. Hardly in response to Thatcher's policies. Rather, I assume, to seek opportunity in Australia as Britain was devasted after the War.

But you make a good point. Instead of being stuck in Engalnd in a slowly dying career - Union militants can only SLOW the death of uncompetitive industry - many Brits came out here and did very well. Families I knew from Liverpool in particular loathed Maggie. Now, when I see my mates' parents (ex Liverpool now very comfortable in Australia), I ask them if they think they are actually now far better off than those they knew who kept their jobs in English mining/manufacturing/trades. They admit they are far better off now than those who "stuck at it". So yes, Thatcher's stoic commitmnet to market economics liberated these people from dead-end jobs and created other opportunites for these guys to seek sustainable careers, albeit outside a struggling UK.

Of course, they still passionately dislike Magge, but I think they know deep down the service she did both to them and to the wider UK economy.Get over the Ditch the Witch bit. Yes, she was going to be called a "witch" by those she annoyed (as was Thatcher) with the big difference being there is now a fairly famous product called a Ditch Witch. Hence, the nonbe too clever phrase "Ditch the Witch" by some annoyed punter. Has anyone seen what protesters (who by definition are extreme and should not be seen as reflective of normal people) have written on placards about Abbott? Again, neither are sexist, some extreme people are (rightly) peed off about certain policies and get a little emotional. And, rather than be scared of emotional epithets we should really go easy on those using them. As it is established fact that emotional epithets are the exclusive domain of those who have no real argument to put forward, rather than chastise these simpler folk, should we not pity them?

But even if you want to insult Gillard by saying she was hurt by something written by some tool on a piece of cardboard, it was not sexist. Personal? Yep. Inappropriate? Maybe. But not sexist. Like those ridiculous rants by Jones. I think all those things actually helped Gillard - but in the end, Australians voted on policy and Gillard or Rudd would have lost equally. I am hoping Australians vote like that in 2016, at which point it should be back to Labor to see if they've learnt any lessons. Then we can clear out the Authoritarians in the Liberal Party so we can go back to a Liberal Government with classic liberal values, not the current crop of imposters.

Moreover, with the policies that the current Government have, expect more personal insults on even more pieces of cardboard. You will get that when so many despise you. My advice to people who cannot shrug off such pathetic statements is do not go into politics - and if you have to, make sure you are in a position to not have to introduce policy that hurts average Australians (Howard).I agree that the use of the term "witch" is personal and therefore lends nothing to rational debate. However, do you recall the "singing" in the streets upon the news of the death of Margaret Thatcher? Do you recall what they were singing? Women incuded. Even senior Union officials got in on it. It is just a personal attack on someone they do not like. Is it repugnant? Absolutely. But I still do not think those small minded people celebrating her death were SEXIST. The only reason they sang about Maggie (30 years after she had any influence, mind you) is because she was so damn great. Will they sing derogatory lyrics about John Major? Of course not, because he was a weak, ineffectual leader. Her opponents hate is testament to her strength and resolve and the fact that she was "not for turning". Again, nothing to do with gender, but all about agenda.No, he is just pointing out that Abbott is equally despised but nobody calls it sexism. And, I for one, agree that the sexism card is played far too much. Australia is one of the least sexist nations on the planet in my opinion and I am happy that my daughter will be living here rather than, say, any Isalmic country or Russia or Asia - and that speaks for a LOT of the World's population.

It does not further the cause of women (not that I admit to Australian women needing a "cause") no favours to play the sexism card, either. However, unfortuantely it can benefit an individual and that is why the card is played so often. I mean, hey, if being half bald meant I was entitled to something others are not, I could probably list all those opportunities that may have come my way if people were not not so prejudiced about my being "folically challenged".

But you make a solid point. And that is that is always some failed XXXX who has to whimper about how the cards are stacked against XXXX. No need to restrict your quote to men only as that would be, you know, sexist.Spot on.

The great divide is wealth. But how can the Left Elite bleat on about equality of wealth while being "part of the problem". It is far easier to have "sexism" as a cause, because most of us are not "part of the problem".

It is all about wealth, however. Do you thik the cards are stacked against Gina Rinehart? She is a woman, after all. However, we all know she has more power than any man in the country. Not because of her gender, but because of her wealth. As a destitute white male is as powerless as Gina is powerful.

But nobody wants to deal with that issue (myself included) as it would mean "sharing" more.Umm, no M.

It will just not be available for West Australians to watch. 

And "Hamstrung by the sponsorship charter" does not mean it is not Healthway's decision.

And do you really believe that WA opera is so out of step with the rest of the World as to be the only Western Opera to ban Carmen? Do you really think the decision would have been made without the ransom money from Healthway?No, this is just political correctness. 

It was always going to "go mad". It is inherent in the concept of PC. For example, as awareness of the dangers of alcohol increase, I can GUARANTEE you that the same treatment will be given to alcohol. Especially as smoking rates drop and the total burden from alcohol related illness becomes larger than that of smoking.  That is, any reference to alcoholic beverages and the "glamorisation" of same will be cut. It is just a matter of time. Then they will come for my sugary drinks as diabetes and other weight related illnesses become prominent. In the end, we will be left only with movies and TV shows stored in the US and other liberal countries. How can one ban something simply set in a cigar factory, but allow, say, Humphrey Bogart to be seen SMOKING in a BAR where they serve ALCOHOL. And he is the star/main protagonist in the movie. What about Bond? "I'll a wheatgrass appletini, shaken, not stirred." If Healthway ever gets to television, and they probably will as Commercial TV is hurting and could use some extra cash, then look out. 

The only positive is the internet - where one can virtually shake off the yoke of PC, albeit temporarily, by streaming content from the US. This takes money away from Australian providers, but I think that is waht is required, after all if losses from subscriptions are higher than the Healthway "sponsorship" then businesses will tell Healthway to take a hike. As always, the free market is our only saviour in the face of Authoritarianism.

Again, I have only been to a handful of operas, so I don't have any skin in the game, but Healthway is a threat to all but the purist of organisation/consumers. I do not want to use term "mission creep" but I feel it most appropriate when dealing with the remit of Healthway.  

Once you accept the ideological concept behind the Healthway model, the genie is out of the bottle. Good luck trying to get it back in.Healthway is Government, unfortunately.

It is effectively WA taxpayers that stump up the cash that Healthway uses to get its way.

I do not accept that WA Opera would have done this if Healthway didn't have them in a corner. They are scared of upsetting Healthway and losing funding, which is perfectly natural. It is called self-preservation. The entity to blame is Healthway which is controlled bythe West Australian Government with BIPARTISAN support. So, they are here to stay as we cannot even do anything at the ballot box. 

The only thing we can do is to reject any organisation that gets into bed with Healthway. Thereby having an effect on the cost/benefit analysis of continuing Healthway sponsorship.Thanks, Ben. Excellent piece.

Funny thing is I had just finished a rant about the same subject on another Drum article before I read this.

When I compare, it is clear you really do have an amazing mastery of the written word and ability to deliver a poignant point of view while being thoroughly entertaining at the same time - and because of that, you may come under scrutiny because we all know one cannot be entertained and safe at the same time...and your piece was entertaining, therefore it follows logically that your article is clearly unsafe.No Zing.

That would mean that people calling for military action against ISIL would be guilty "advocating harm" as nobody pretends people willnot be harmed by military action. 

I agree one does not have the right to harm, but one should able to advocate harm. I mean, I am an advocate of capital punishment. That certainly involves harm (obviously I see at justified, but many do not) and is out of step with majority thinking. Should I be dragged away for advocating capital punishment? I say no. Because the majority can (and unfortunately do) ignore my desire to say, save hundreds of millions a year by executing the worst of the worst (Bryant, Milat and many, many more). That is fine. It is democracy. But I should still be able to promote my ideas even thouhg they are not consistent with the majority and advocate harm.Completely agree, Yank.

It is a terrible betrayal of what they told the electorate they stood for...whatever one's opinion on freedom of speech issues. For the record, I don't like these laws or s18C etc, but at least I am ideologically consistent.The house you own is "stuff", mate. Generally, it equates to quite a lot of "stuff". So poor? Not so much. 

It is nice that yoy had the option of early semi-retirement as you have a strong asset base, but many do NOT have that option. And I get the impression you are saying that one can lead that lifestyle if one choose not to be seduced by unecessary stuff. Yes and no. Most of us do not own a home, therefore are burdened with rent or a mortgage. Such people simply cannot opt to do as you have done.

But I agree that a lifestyle as you have described would go a long way to preventing mental health problems. The problem is that it isn't much of a solution for most people until relatively late in life. For example, I will not be in your position for another 25 years (own my home) unless, of course, I win Powerball tonight. Here's hoping...Chemicals do speak. We are, afterall, merely a collection of chemicals.This article quite right about the growing impact of mental illness and its contribution to disability by 2020.

And it will get FAR worse after that. Why? Not only the aging population, but also our shift towards Orwellian austerity when it comes to physical health. I am probably the only left of my peers that drinks sugary drinks - you know the same drinks Big Health are trying to demonise. Also, our exercise is drfiting into more "brain dead" areas. Like treadmills etc that almost REQUIRE the mind to shut off - whereas at least a game of tennis required some mental agility and use of skill etc. This shift means that our brains are being used far less - not chronologically, but in terms of depth of use.

So, not only will we have people living much longer, it is my prediction that brain health, ceteris paribus, will actually be worse than in years gone by. So it is a double whammy. Peoples brains, I believe, are getting less healthy with time, whereas physically we will be living longer (generally speaking - obviously not me as I drink sugary drinks). And as for the cost, the mind boggles (sorry about that shamelss pun). Instead of treating mental health issues for the last 20-30 years of life, that will turn into 40-50 years of life.

I am obviously no mental health professional, but the impression I get is that the general populace are becoming more like lab rats as time goes by. We might be moving towards "perfect" diets and exercise regimes, but at what cost to our only irreplaceable organ? I mean, running 10kms is just not going to provide the same mental exercise as a game of chess. Has anyone on here ever had a stimulating conversation or debate with someone obsessed with their physical health (on a subject other than "health and wellbeing")? 

I hope I am wrong, but I think the author is correct about mental illness - but misses the most desirable goal - prevention. I know not all mental illnesses have been causally linked with brain atrophy, but I have a sneaking suspicion, based on non-scientific anecdotal observations (of course) that people should be encouraged (not forced or taxed into) to pursue more cerebral activities with a view to preventing mental illness. Our understanding of the brain is extremely poor in comparison to other organs, so I do not hold out much hope for any ex post facto treatment "coming to the rescue.I am anti-Big Health as they actually cause more harm in my opinion.

Take something that has been prominent in the WA press this week. Healthway (part of Big Health) grants money to certain organisations and then uses that influence to demand certain things - generally to do with banning ANY smoking areas and to not sell sugary drinks, full strength alcohol etc. And because they hold their cheque book over these organisations, it is something Vito Corleone would be most impressed with. Anyway, nobody cared when they "got to" the trotting/racing association or the zoo - neither of which venues now allow smoking areas or allowed to display promotions of "unhealthy" foo/drinks. Things changed when Carmen was not allowed to be performed due to Healthway's issue with the fact that the first act takes place in a cigar factory. This opera has not been banned in any other Western country on those grounds - even Ireland and the UK - the two nations that run a close second to Australia in the Nanny State Championships.

So, the bottom line is, once again, Big Health has prevented something that is socially and mentally enriching from a cultural point of view due to the Mafia-esque manner in which Big Health operates. And please tell me, what do you think the median age was in the audience last time you attended the opera? Hardly the "impressionable young kids" set.

And this is just what happened THIS WEEK. One could fill volume after volume with the lists of mentally enriching or socially enriching activities that have been banned/limited by Big Health. The cynic in me says that the only reason the banning of Carmen got push back in the press is that it hit the Left Elite. They think it is fine to discriminate against smokers, sugary drink consumers etc but if it involves discrimination against something the Left Elite may have wanted to participate in, then...well...it is just unreasonable.

Out of principle, I ensure neither myself or my wife kids patronise ANY organisation that takes money from Healthway, which is disappointing as it means we have had to miss out on visiting the zoo which we used to do regularly. I understand that I am a little different than most on this issue, but if EVERYONE did what I did, then it would break Healthway's business model as the relatively small amount of money they use to effectively control these organisations would be far less than revenue lost due to a drop in traffic due to protest. Alas, nobody else has ever cared...until it affected the opera. I don't think this will be enough for consumers to vote with their feet against all other Healthway controlled organisations, however, but the coverage can only help.Not a bad idea, like a "War Telethon".

The only problem is that we have to do what the US says. We effectively do that for their "protection" and it is far cheaper than defending ourselves. So, whilst I agree with Chris that this is a waste of money, if the US ask us to jump, our only response can be "how high?"

We should blame those fools who started beheading US citizens. It is those beheadings that made Obama act (not the thousands killed in the region prior to that). The US did not even act after Assad used chemical weapons.

In that way, the beheadings worked. Because as a direct result of those beheadings, the West will collectively be billions worse off. Australia included, unfortunately.

I actually support using ground troops now as that would ensure a swift conclusion to the conflict rather than the current situation. The current course of action will simply mean we drop a few bombs, ISIS regroup, we drop a few more bombs, ISIS regroup, rinse and repeat ad infinitum. 

Instead, I say put a few hundred thousand troops in  there, spend a couple of months ridding the region of these clowns and then get out.Haha.

They are already dead in the water, Trent. And that is when thimngs are at their most dangerous. Nothing is so scary as someone in power with nothing to lose.

Their only hope is the religious voting bloc. They have not done anything to get them offside. The rest of us on the right are gob-smacked at how this Government has trashed indivdual liberty, INCREASED spending and taxation.

If I was a true Lefty, I would be celebrating. What this Government has done has made average people despise what the Left in the media cleverly label "right wing" politics. Even though, there is nothing right wing about dispensing with civil liberties or increasing spending and taxation.

So you can be happy about that, Trent. I, on the other hand, am despairing as I no longer have a preferred major party. Like many classic liberals, we cannot countenance the behaviour of this Government but we still do not want to vote for the ALP/Greens. I guess I will have to put the ALP second to the LDP only because at least the ALP/Greens have never held themsleves out to be pro-individual. While both parties are now both collectivist, it is the Liberals who betrayed us individualists. The ALP/Greens made no such representation and therefore have the cleaner hands.No, Simon, we would see a commodification of the news. That is, there would be more cross-promotion pieces on the Bachelor, Big Brother or the Block. That is, the news would be dumbed right down. I know that if dumb news is what is demanded, dumb news should be provided - and it is. 

But, like bricks and mortar libraries, even though the demand may not pay for costs in a business sense, I still think they play an important role where the more cerebral minority can go to access books. That is, it is not a business case that needs to be made. Rather, it is a public service.

And this is just another of those policies from the current Liberals that they have lied about. And there is a reason. If they went to the election sayinmg that they would gut the ABC's budget, they would have lost many voters like me, who do value our public broadcaster and is pretty much the only free-to-air channel that I watch. They are obviously hoping that people will forget in two years. I am hoping people do not.

Don't get me wrong, I am no fan of the ALP and the Greens and what they mean for our economy. But these current Liberals are doing permanent damage to our freedoms, our ABC and with zero of the positive traits of a classic liberal ideology like lower taxes and empowerment of individuals. There is even talk of further (yes, further as they have already increased taxes on the middle class) tax rises to "pay for the ISIS operation". What? They are taxing and spending more than Labor. And they are curtailing indivdual freedoms more than Labor. It is like a bad episode of the Twilight Zone.

Anyone who has, or does, enjoy listening to or watching the ABC, simply cannot vote for these Liberals. Do the right thing and kick these Liberals out and maybe, just maybe, the Party will get the message. I know that means one or two terms of Labor, but if means a resetting of the once great Liberal Party of Australia, then it's a price I am happy to pay.No, gerard, they need less.

To address the article, where are all the "dodgy knee" awareness campaigns? There isn't any. That is, the dodgy knee is just seen as another malady. Mental illness needs to strive for the same treatment, not special treatment. The problem, of course, is that many special interests get something out of the special treatment angle. Lawyers, both criminal and industrial relations, are a good example. I cannot see a lawyer being able to use a pre-exisitng dodgy knee as a mitigating circumstance to reduce culpability.

Remember, one cannot force people to see something as normal. People need to SEE and HEAR mental illness being treated the same as other physical maladies. We cannot have it both ways. If we want something to be normalised, it needs to be given no special treatment.What is the cause? That's the million dollar question.

There is no rational reason for Australians to be depressed. No matter bad an Australian has it, they still have it pretty good next to the vast majority of the World's population.

Maybe that is it. Depression seems to be less prevalent where people struggle to survive. That is, the woman who has to cart water 30 miles every day, has not the time to reflect on her life and whether or not she is depressed.

Maybe it is our silly obsession with perpetual happiness and perfection that causes people to become depressed. Or maybe people in third world countries are just as depressed as Australians but have not the time nor resources to collect and analyse the data properly.

I genuinely feel sorry for anyone who cannot derive any joy form their lives. But I know that if somoene like Stephen Fry can be depressed, then it has nothing to do with intelligence or privilege. He has both is spades. He is a brilliant man who struggles with depression and suicide. It really is a mystery as to cause of mental illnessWhy is a mental condition different? Simple. Lawyers, and even society at large, use it as an excuse for behaviour that harms others. I do not have to worry that the guy with the broken knee is going to do something to hurt me or my children.

Now, I understand the overwhelming majority of those who are mentally ill would never do anything like that, but that is the answer to your "why?" in the article. A bit like a few well publicised bad muslims, engender fear of muslims in the wider community.

So how do we change things? There is only one way and that is to stop allowing mental illness to be used as a shield. The more lawyers link mental illness with heinous crimes in the media, the more people on the street are fearful of mental illness. I know it is not the majority, but due to the wide publicity that some events attract, then people will continue to be scared of those with mental illness.

Oh, and the political correctness surrounding it also further marginalises mental illness, as it does with everything. I mean the "mental illness lobby" has even tried to stop the use of the word "crazy" in marketing like "crazy prices". Over here at the Perth Royal Show, one of the horror attractions had to be modified and all references to "Asylum" and "Sanitorium" had to be removed. Like PC always does, it creates a nervousness and uncomfortableness around these issues and the people that suffer them. When the PC army mobilises, it is just easier to distance oneself from the whole issue so as to avoid potential liability.

Entitlements like stress leave etc also do not help. An employer will consider the ridiculously generous entitlements that an employee claiming stress leave can be awarded when deciding to hire staff. Therefore, this is another reason someone with mental illness may wish to saty silent or not be comfortable in letting prospective employers know about any condition they have. It is a sad situation, but it is true. You see, the man/woman with a dodgy knee cannot (where the injury is pre-existing) cannot have months and months off at the employers expense, but a stress-leave claimant can.

So, when society at large starts treating mental illness in the same way as a dodgy knee (which is pretty much "whatever") then those with mental illness will not have to worry any more than those with a dodgy knee. But while society has special rules and the wider community are made to tiptoe around the issue of mental illness, then the stigma that attaches to mental illness will remain.True, EEL. And no other risk-taking behaviour contributes anywhere near what smoking does.

Yank, you realise you are really arguing for a US based health system. Universal health care means some of us subsidise the bad choices of others. The only solution is a user pays system. I am against that, but still support freedom of choice. If people smoke, I would still pay for their health. If they drink, same. Motorcyclists too. People don't make bad health choices just to access free health care. Making the poorest in our community (smokers) indirectly pay for their own health care, plus subsides others, is manifestly unfair in the extreme. It is worse tha. A regressive system, indeed it is the oral reverse of a progressive tax. Disgusting.

Educate smokers? Absolutely. Help them quit? Sure. But make them pay more for their bad health choices? No. It only makes their situation more unbearable when they are already in a bind (addiction).Absolutely.

What Chapman does not get is that the good Senator respects individual freedom. He is very lonely in our Parliament, unfortunately. Big Health, of which Chapman is clearly a well paid servant, does not respect individual freedoms. The Senator, and the LDP more generally, are advocates for freedom of choice. His view is identical to mine - that people should be able to CHOOSE their own destiny. Where Chapman differs is that he would like to remove people's choice to smoke "for their own good". Much like most Authoritarians, he believes society would be better off if everyone made certain choices, generally choices that align with their point of view.

Nobody is saying it is good decision to smoke. In fact, the LDP rather believe that people should make that choice for themselves. It is about respecting a person's right to choose, NOT about the merits of smoking. People, like Chapman see themselves as "protectors" of society. Personally, I think drinking alcohol is a bad choice, but I would never even entertain the notion of making that decision for other adults. It all boils down to collectivism versus individualism. Chapman is a collectivist, the Senator is an individualist. Just as the Chinese Government is more collectivist than say the US Government that is more individualist. I would suggest that the demonstrators in Hong Kong are individualists too.Two things.

Firstly, the de facto ban would only apply to the poor - not the rich - further widening the real gap between rich and poor. Adding freedom to the list of things that the poor should go without. 

Second, as you admit to smoking and therefore incurring costs for me to pay, should we not put a levy on ex-smokers who have paid relatively little tobacco excise than today's smokers. Or is this just another area where Baby Boomers should enjoy something only to "pull the ladders up behind them"?

People who support onerous taxes on the poor can tell themselves whatever they want to help them sleep at night. The fact remains, however, that more taxes mean more pain for the poor. Just like the Liberals asking people to wait 6 months for Newstart. Yes, the theory is that that will make them get off the couch and get a job (just like tobacco tax will make people quit). However, the fact remains that the Government KNOWS not everyone will find a job (or quit). But Andrews tells himself he is HELPING the unemployed (while saving a shipload of money). How is that different from the tobacco excise? It isn't. Both measures are equally despicable from an equity point of view.

But just as smokers only make up 13% of the adult population, the unemployed are also in the minority (around 12% or more if you count the underemployed). 

I do not smoke so I have no skin in the game. I guess I would be better off if another segment of society subsidised my health costs. But I, unlike the Left and Big Health, feel guilty about it. Also, what non-smokers (and ex-smokers who seem to be the harshest) do not realise, is that if you accept the argument for ever increasing tobacco excise, then from a logical standpoint, you would have to agree to higher alcohol excise, sugar tax, salt tax, fat tax, insufficient exercise tax and the list goes on and on. How can some obese person (majority of Australians) judge smokers on their choices?

Tax people as much as you like, just please, please do not make out you are doing it for their own good. It is just greed. Or are illicit drug dealers driving Ferrari's really just modern day Mother Theresa's sending price signals to their poor, addicted clients? Come on, people, how thick have we become?But also, Bob, the freedom to NOT consume.

If particular indivduals seek a monastic life, they should certainly be allowed to pursue that lifestyle. The Amish in the US serve as an excellent example.Absolutely, LC.

All three of those bodies are in it for the same reason...money.
The least culpable, however, is Big Tobacco. One needs to blame evolution (or God for creationists) for the existence of tobacco and therefore the fact that humans smoked it and do themsleves harm in the process.

Big Tobacco, however, as part of a free market, can only make allowable returns due to competition. The Cancer Council/Government, on the other hand, are the ones who make far more money and have a monopoly over the supply of an addictive product. Worse, they are always hungry for money as Government is always less efficient than private enterprise.

The Government is against e-cigs because they are a threat to their operation. Until they collect $10-$15 per pack (or equivalent quantity for e-cigs) then they will jealously protect their market - similar to organised crime.

This is just another example of why the only good Government is Small Government.What about those with wood fires at home, me?

Where's the 500% firewood excise? I'll tell you. Firewood is not addictive, therefore, nobody would contine to buy firwood at $100 per bag.

Just like people who think the Government is dfoing for health reasons, you would be wrong if you thnk the Government increases tobacco excise for environmental reasons. It is simple - it is for the money.

A great way to prove me wrong would be for the Government to eliminate tobacco excise and PAY non-smokers for not smoking. That would have the same result as a price signal - just carrot rather than stick. Also, it would be OK with people like me as it would be clear that the measure is not just a quick, easy cash grab from those most vulnerbale in our community.

Why has no Government EVER done such a thing? Hmmm, now let me think.

Remember, tobacco excise is about the only tax increase that is APPLAUDED by the community. Therefore, I see no end in sight. But although it will cost me, I kind of look forward to when it placed on ALL unhealthy items/behaviours. Like sugar, salt, sitting on the couch etc. It will be then that you will see me saying "I told you so". They have already started the process. Has anyone seen the "are youy sure you want fries with that?" campaign? Well, first they have to get the public to think a product is bad, then they introduce the taxes...and it is increased tax revenue that is the end game for Government, not health outcomes...or environmental outcomes as you have alluded to in your post.I was agianst the CT, not against action on climate change.

At  least here in WA, we only have ONE electricity provider that simply passed along the CT. Therefore, the theory underlying the CT could never work. That theory being that a cleaner company's prices couyld be lower as they would not have pay as much CT. This would then make the dirtier company "clean up their act" or start losing business as consumers opt for the cheaper (and cleaner) provider. 

In WA, that dynamic could not happen as there is ZERO competition. So, in the absence of competition in the market, I actually prefer direct actiion, just not what Abbott proposed. I propose FREE solar panels for all Australian dwellings - a bit like the Pink Batts scheme. Yes, it would cost a LOT. But would reduce demand for coal fired electricity and therefore reduce emissions. You see, even the most anti-environment home owners would have to sign up for the free panels as if their house remained panel free, it would be worth a lot less than the other houses in the street with panels.

The free panels direct action also avoids the middle men involved in any ETS - that's right, a bunch of guys who would become "carbon traders" that are just a drain on the system.
I really don't know why it is not advocated at all. People I know with panels barely use grid power, and where they do, their demand is a third (or less) of what it used to be. Someone, please, enlighten me as to why the free panels would not work to massively reduce our emissions.Agreed that this Government is Authoritarian. But Yank, for all the beneficial measures Labor has opposed, why would they wave this through so eagerly. It is despairing because it leaves us without a real choice on the issue. 

And do you really think Abbott thinks WE need these changes? Come on. HE wants these changes. It is just lazy Government (sorry about the redundant inclusion of lazy there) that wants ever increasing powers to make their lives easier and also to shutdown opposition. As it stands under Abbott, if you oppose anything he does, he can make life very difficult for you, very easily. No pesky warrants or other well established checks on executive power. This is all a well thought through attempt at making the Government untouchable which would be understandable if there was even a remote chance that these Libs will be in Government in 2016.

Good luck to the next Liberal oppposition leader trying to dislodge the next ALP Government.
 
As I have said before, the ALP want these Authoritarian powers too. And they will have them in 2016. Expanding Government's role in ANYTHING is ALWAYS bad. What is given to Government is taken from individuals, both socially and economically.That is where we differ, Yank.

I would support far stronger action against the threat (military action) and far less punishment of the innocent (us) via having to live in a Police State.

The problem with the Iraq war (as with Afghanistan) is that a nation cannot "win" a war where the objective is not complete conquest. I suggest that there would be no problems in Afghanistan and Iraq if they were to have become part of the US - not that the US would that outcome.

Not that I advocate expansionism, it's just that if we are to go to war then conquest needs to be the objective. Otherwise, power vacuums ensue and the problem is likely to get worse.

To me, the West should be either "all-in" going for conquest or stay COMPLETELY out of it. I prefer the latter option, for the record.Respect, Yank, principle should always trump party allegiance.

I was a life-long Liberal supporter, but that was due to their principles. They have deserted their principles and I have, therefore, deserted them.

Only problem is, there is now only one party that supports my principles and it is the LDP, which garners an insignificant vote - talk about disenfranchisement - I have been indirectly disenfranchised as, while I am allowed to vote, there is now so little separating the duopoly now that voting really cannot be seen to matter.
