APM: I often wonder how the Coalition even has the low support that it has. However when I read your contribution I can but believe there must be more that for a time at least are going down with the ship fighting and screaming.

Labor is in tune with public thinking, and Liberal woes are in the main because they do not recognise that, and they treat the population like idiots.

One can, with ease, quote dozens of promises and predictions made by Abbott and his front bench that now have not even the slightest relevance to the truth.  There are no $100 roasts, Whyalla is still there, there is no marked increase in the cost of living, there was no serious increase in the cost of electricity, few small businesses went under because of the carbon tax. Perhaps worst of all no one will be $550 better off.

The stupidest thing of all is to expect people to be thankful  to save about $5. per week from this "Core" promise whilst they take away thousands with the other hand.

In the meantime Australia remains the greatest polluter,per capita, or close to it, and will become an international pariah with no effective carbon reduction scheme. 

Your comments about open boarders show that you have no grasp of the situation at all.  This should be a bipartisan issue, not one by which elections are won, a process set in place by Howard, and picked up by Abbott and Morrison.

I wonder what has happened to Abbott's billboard, informing people smugglers all they wanted to know, now that it has achieved its purpose.The ends justifies the means does it John C. Just as well that standard does not set the pace for the rest of our lives.

Actually that mantra was first used by John Howard when he decided to use boat refugees as a tool against Labor, and to win an election. We, or most of us, remember his "Children overboard" and following nationalistic speech that moved people like yourself, even to this day.

This is a political tool, ably used by Abbott, and to its discredit, Labor had to follow down the same doubtful path, or forever be wedged.

Lives as sea, your justification for inhumane action, could have been saved had Howard sought a bipartisan response form Labor in the first place instead of taking action, that indeed won him another term, but discredited Australia in the process.

Of course your other comeback would be that those who do not like what this Government is doing in our name, must therefore want unlimited access to boat people, and encourage smugglers.  This of course is not true.  Labor set up a special committee, using people that even now the Liberals are using in cases of emergency for advice on National issues.  However because they were on a good thing Abbott and Morrison resisted any solution that was not theirs. In other words they wanted the boats to continue so that they could change the figures on the billboard.

Your rather simple three line comment does not reflect history on this matter in any way, nor does it do you any credit.

Meanwhile our name is being thrashed, at great expense whilst we use our armed services for actions for which they were not intended. That is unless you take  this "Sovereign Borders" thing other that political spin.

What other countries Evan. They are looking at us alright, but for other reasons.The trouble is TrevorN, the tone of many of the above bloggers  indicates the intelligence of the Coalition voter.  This is rather surprising because in years past to vote Liberal was the in thing for those that thought, or pretended to be a little above the hoi polloi.  Shows how wrong that thinking was.

For their simple minds the result of Australia taking a more humane stance on boat people will inevitably result in us being swamped with "Heathens" or that oft used insincere term "Deaths at sea"

Had the Liberals forgotten for a minute about political advantage, and asked Labor to work on a bipartisan solution, surely with the collective ingenuity of all of our politicians and public servants, a solution would have been reached by now. One that is eminently better than the current position of using our armed forces for purposes for which they were not intended.  Had they even assisted Labor to implement the recommendations of the special committee to look into the issue, things would be better.

We are paying the price of politics. When it all comes down to it the Liberal thinking is that it is better to use any means to gain power, no matter at what cost than to suffer the policies of a Labor Government.

Well we have a Liberal Government, and the issue is far from settled. Boats have not been stopped. If they had been there would not be 150 or so refugees on a customs vessel now.

It is time Liberals and Labor worked together on a bipartisan solution.  We have the wrong person as Prime Minister for such a thing to happen.The same old dumb question Evan "How many". You justify your support of an unprincipled Coalition government still using the tactic of its equally unprincipled coalition predecessor, by frightening the easily confused with visions of hordes of infidels invading out shores. Thus the name "Sovereign Borders"

You imply that the Parliament of this country, not just the Liberal Party, all of its advisers and sundry public servants have not the wit to solve this problem in a bipartisan manner.

The truth is that this a a political weapon, has won two elections, and the Coalition has no  intention of letting go until and if public opinion turns against them. That may take some time. Why do you not make a start by not asking tired old unintelligent questions?

Because Ivan the refugees are not white, catholic escapees from the despotic rule of Zimbabwe.

Now I will admit there is a difference because people of our own culture and dare I mention it, religion, are less likely to cause turmoil at a later date. Or so most people have been lead to think.

Our Government steers away from voicing such motives though, but they are the same as John Howard used to win his election.

The Government is in the difficult position of balancing this issue, between its election winning properties, humanity, xenophobia it is originally responsible for, and appeasing the people it originally deliberately stirred up. Plus of course the growing number that are unhappy with the botch they are making of the whole issue.

Oh for some political statesmen.Coogera: It is nonsense to suggest that race does not play some part.  We hold ourselves up as being above that, but what do you think was behind Howard's "We will decide who comes to this country... Did he not also say " We do not want these type of people here".  Why do you think the public so vocally responded. As I said he would hardly have said the same about a boat load of white refugees from Zimbabwe.

I am not even going to pretend that it should not be an issue, but to stir up zenophobia for grass political purposes diminished his prime ministership.

I think by your last couple of lines you have evidenced a lack of knowledge of the circumstances of refugees, even if in isolated cases it is true.FG: I will graciously overlook the fact that you feign ignorance on the circumstances that originally caused this issue to be a partisan one.  Politics is a clue for you.

That said are you really suggesting that the current practices of the Coalition, "Sovereign borders" use of our military, deaths in detention centres, keeping people confined on customs vessels, children in custody, mental issues, bad international coverage, is going to end in a way that is a credit to us and our current crop op politicians.

You sound like a dying man clutching at straws.Sticking to the policies of sinking ship is one thing, but do not expect many to cling to the life rafts with you. Difficult to see the "Fair compassion" in the Coalition budget.

I have seen dozens of budgets, and have found that the public usually accept "Fair compassion". Have you ever asked yourself why this one is so different?So this is the only ever budget to have cuts. You will have to do getter than that!Zing:  Strange how to observers of politics, albeit with different views can see things in such a different light. John Winston Howard enjoys the doubtful honor of being Australia's most profligate prime minister ever. He left structural debt that is a problem to this date.. He may have been able to afford it at the time, but nevertheless gave middle class tax cuts, and family benefits that were suicidal for later governments to reign in.

Nothing Labor ever did is in the same realm of further profligacy as Abbott's PPL scheme.  It has gone from one of enabling "Women of quality" to return to the workforce and increase productivity, (goodness knows how) to one of a workplace entitlement. To one of equality with the public service. None of this spin stacks up.

Abbott's budget in all of its failures will leave the deficit about 40 bil worse.   But then you stick to this mob.So why did we have a Royal Commission into deaths in custody? Surely it must have been the inmates fault for being there!gbe. At least be a bit factual. That is not Labor's policy. in any event had Howard sought solutions to this problem on a bipartisan basis, instead of demonising boat people and acting unilaterally to win an election, there may not have been deaths at sea, or even a problem now.

Abbott's version is the same . Win an election at any cost.

You can spin it all you like, but history will decide which party is culpable here.Yes Virgil: Not sure that at this point in their repatriation the process is any more that a show for politicians. I wonder if the relatives were consulted.jgm: Yes, but did you admit at the time that they did do some things well? Or are you like Jamie, below, who finds it difficult to give credit where credit is due?

The major point of this issue is that Abbott has determined that it cannot do Australia any harm if he speaks tough. After all it is all for a domestic audience.  The more a nation's economy is entwined with Russia's the more muted they become.  It is probably also the case that Russia is not unduly worried about its popularity in Australia either.

I must admit that Abbott does not appear to have put his foot in it as yet, and may be he is slowly getting the idea of diplomacy.  However if he thinks that this will put him in the good books of all of those he has marginalised, I am afraid he is mistaken, despite the best efforts of News Corp. commentators who think this is a diving competition where you give marks out of 10.Craig: Your point is a bit difficult to make. The list you have reeled off are unlikely to refuse entry to anyone on the grounds of religion or race.  May be even Jewish schools do not turn away non jews, I do not know, but the point is that if you insist in raising your children in a particular religion, or insist on particular cultural teachings, you are setting them apart from the majority.

The conduct referred to by the author seems so abhorrent that one hopes that it is exaggerated, especially if it occurs in Australia. But alas probably not.

I had to read for a while before the author conceded that everyone who was not happy with the conduct of the current war by Israel, is not necessarily anti semitic, because I am sure that such is the case.

Whilst the world is plagued with so many religions, still determined to prove that they are the one true religion, and they all use the same method of indoctrination of young minds at an early age, there does not seem that things will change.

Metronome:  A persons ambivalence towards religion does not mean a hatred, like many of you of religion keep stating.

After all two atheists are hardly likely to start a fight over who disbelieves the most. There your personal freedom is not interfered with.

 On the other hand at any given time in the world there are multiple wars over who worships the right God. This of course does in many cases infringe on our personal freedoms, and too often is the cause of destruction, injury and death. Thus it has been through history, and all because civilisation has not yet discarded beliefs of a day, as one correspondent said, that they thought the world was flat.

To answer your last question, one can only hope that enlightenment will some day prevail.Michael T. Are you implying that all who vote Labor or Greens have no concern about national security. Strange conclusion!

One could just as easily say that the right side of politics jump at shadows, and where there is no threat, invent one, such as the reason given for the invasion of Iraq.  Even the name "Sovereign Borders" implies the country is about to be invaded.

The Labor party has indicated that it is prepared to consider these latest proposals, but first wants to see the safeguards.

I have nothing to hide, but the thought of any government, particularly a liberal one, abusing what was given in good faith has to be explored. hence the need for safeguards.Aaron.  Reading comments on The Drum is not compulsory. Nor is reading the Australian newspaper.  I gave that up when Murdoch instructed all of his journalists to feed us propaganda about what a terrible person Julia Gillard was. You could do the same and and we would be spared your unsavory comment.

Abbott makes it very easy for anyone to criticise his prime ministership.  But of course he set himself up when he was leader of the opposition by forgetting that roughly 50% of Australians have different political views to himself and it was not wise to demean and belittle their views. He only thought he was the chosen of God.

The hate fill lefty followers you refer to are not unhappy. Abbott is making such a mess of everything that there will be a "Lefty" government returned in a couple of years.Splod1. Not my term. I was referring "Lefty" as used by Aaron, above. I presume he meant Labor.

"Lefty" is usually a term used by Liberal followers to demean those that do not have the same ideology as themselves.

Exactly what principles are you referring to.  I dare say you voted for the government that best suit your own thinking. Losing popular support though.Hawko: If that happens it will mean that all of our security agencies have miserably failed.

It is strange how one minute this Government can lecture us on infringements of our civil liberties, and the next suggest legislation like this.

I would hate to think that it is being done to boost Abbott's image. (A fairly forlorn hope)

I will be guided by the official Labor stance but do believe that a sunset clause should be part of the equation.No one was worried about 18c except Andrew Bolt. The Government made him a promise to reward him for his loyal support, and they are the ones that dropped the ball.

Their concerns for civil freedom has now done a backflip. Do not blame Jonathan.yank: You have said it all in your last sentence.  "A new pm and a brand new approach in governing."

It is really amazing that Abbott and the LNP could be duped into thinking that the public, with the change to a new ideology, suddenly wanted the form of Government now being dished up to them.

How they could be so wrong is anyone's guess.  Even Clive Palmer, a once Liberal strongman has no difficulty in using the miscalculations of the Abbott front bench to his advantage,

Bishop has not got what it takes. Repeating what is told to her  by more informed advisors shows that she has learned after her Indonesian diplomacy debacle, but that still puts her a long way from being PM material.

The only one with enough intelligence in the Liberal party is Turnbull, but he is hated too much by his fellow Liberals.

The so called "Young guns" best road to being noticed is to stop trying to defend the indefensible, and try and level with the public.sidlaw: You mention border control. Therein lies part of the problem.  The Abbott government put too many eggs in that one basket. Howard had wedged successive labor governments, starting with "Children overboard", and Abbott thought that all he had to do was continue the wedge and he would be in government forever.

The trouble is that he has applied that particular philosophy to all of his thinking ever since he became opposition leader, and now Prime Minister.

Most of his policies are opposite to what Labor would do for that simple purpose only. He has visions born from his privileged upbringing, religious beliefs, and time in a seminary.  Hardly the background of normal hard working Australians.  He has surrounded himself with like mined Ministers, to the point we now have one that is doing a little social engineering on the marriage front.

It is too late to change the picture of Abbott greeting a rather humble Bob Brown, while remaining seated, with his feet up on his desk. This at at time he was trying to win support to govern.  Even that attitude to the cross benches is contagious with his ministers.Brian: You have obviously forgotten that the IPA is a Liberal think tank that never ever criticise a Liberal Government. For Chris Berg to now do so is akin to Howard criticising Menzies, or Menzies himself advocating a republic.

For you to go on with such a rant against Shorten, and giving him the credit for the public realising what a dog of a budget this is is truly amazing.

What part of the budget do you think the public have gotten wrong?  That is the real point. When you enunciate this we will have a better knowledge of where you are coming from.  Perhaps you can start with the PPL scheme, and move on from there.

Yours is the type of expression I would expect any mother would make of her son's failings.happy:  You get all of your ideas from Tony apparently, and or Joe.  Abbott's brain explosion of a PPL scheme was made off the cuff, whilst he would do anything to become Prime minister. Leaving aside that he once said "A PPL scheme over his dead body, Blind Freddy could see he had buckley's chance of getting it through.  Abbott has not the foresight of Blind Freddy.
 When he failed to sell it on a "Productivity" platform, he changed to an "Entitlement". Then he turned around Howard's 'Politics of envy" ploy to try and convince people that if public servants got it so should every one else.

The only trouble with is latest effort is that when public servants suss out public service wages in conditions that may require them to move house PPL is part of it.  Just like a car may be part of it.  Is Abbott now suggesting that all employers should provide a car?

The argument that Liberal front benchers, now use is that only a small percentage of women will get the 100k. Women in that category surely hardly need it at all . In any case if they have to be bribed to have children with such expansive hand outs from the government we are probably better off not having  the self indulgent adults they could turn out to be.happy: A brain explosion is a brain explosion. You cannot turn it into well conceived sensible policy, even will all your ideological support.happy: I hope you read all of the comebacks to your rather silly attempt to make a connection to public servants.

Once again for public servants, it is a work entitlement. I f the owner of a coffee shop wants to include ppl in his remuneration package, that is up to him. not the taxpayer.

Canberra was minus 5 degrees this morning. Perhaps PPL is a reward for living there.

I know, your dying gasp will be "The tax payer pays the wages of public servants"  All I can say is that Politicians have the most generous superannuation conditions in Australia.  Does Abbott intend to make that scheme nation wide?happy. Stick to it. Never give up. Actually only partly paid for by the big end of town, and that is only on a temporary basis. And of course Woolworths and Coles will not put their prices up will they?

You seem to be the only one, including most Liberal Politicians lauding this scheme.Jack: My wife and I raised our own brood, without government assistance, other than child endowment of about 5 shillings per week. Logically I am against the scheme proposed by Abbott because it favours some women more than others.

However I do agree that women have become an essential part of the workforce. where in some, or many cases they are the chief breadwinner. Therefore economically I feel that there should be some support for them to have children, and for early childcare.

After years of no PPL I believe that Labour got it about right.

Most women can now plan for a family and receive sufficient assistance to help  with the essentials such as baby seats that the law requires them to use.

It says something for the intelligence of our current Prime minister if he thought that he could sell such a preposterous idea in our economy.Well Alfie. I would expect to win lotteries too!  The public servants entitlements have nothing to do with Abbott's brain explosion.  Why are you not carrying on about his first justification "Productivity".

"Workplace entitlement" is down the list of reasons he has dreamed up, as one after the other failed to make the grade.

If you try hard you may be able to think of a reason of your own that is just as plausible as Abbott's reasons which he changes on a weekly basis.

"Socialists" as you so sneeringly call people with more intelligence than you, do not believe equal wages for all, or anything like it,but having babies does carry a little bit of personal responsibility, and the current situation seems about fair.Alfie; I have already answered it in a previous post. However to reiterate, when you apply for a public service job as a woman(of calibre or not) ppl is part of the pay package negotiated.

Politicians, including Abbott and Hockey are on the best employment conditions, lurks and perks, superannuation in the country.  According to your example everyone should get the same.

If the whole country applied for travelling allowance on the same basis as Abbott. Ronaldson, and Barnaby Joyce, the country really would be broke.

If you have read all of the responses to your suggestion  you should have gotten the message by now.

Oh by the way what is equal about Abbott's PPL scheme Wealthy women get more.Ben: What arrogance: The minority you refer to has, since the ineptitude of the government has become so obviously known,  become a majority.

It is a bit too simplistic to think that every policy, or really non policy, the LNP took to the election was a mandate. Besides the fact that since the election, the Coalition has offended our neighbours, spent hundreds of thousands on orange boats, and treated an issue that Howard ensured became one of the partisan divisive issues ever in Australian politics, as a threat to out borders, many people have changed their attitude. And the secrecy.

It is not that they want unlimited boat arrivals, they just want all parties to get together and solve the problem. But that would be too simple and it would deprive the LNP of a huge political weapon.

Tony Abbott on a daily basis displays his hypocrisy by parading Angus Huston as a man for all seasons, but when Huston's committee submitted the results of the only inquiry into the boat people issue, Abbott who was busy marking up arrivals on his bill board, rejected it.

Morrison is laying the ground for him to be considered in a bad light when the history of this issue is written.

To so readily dismiss the complaints so far as children is custody is concerned is typical Morrison.  So Gillian Triggs in not a doctor, so the comments can be arrogantly dismissed. Surely he should be aware that they came from qualified medical practitioners.

It may be handy to blame Labor for the children currently behind barbed wire, but the problem is one for the now government, and they should be judged for how they deal with it.  They wanted government and they got it with all of the attached problems.

Like everything else they are still blaming the previous government for issues they told everyone they had the answers to.gd: The old chestnut " Companies are happy to move their capital where they get better returns".

The big three here are not likely to do that, and you know it. Or do you. Are you only repeating the mantra of the LCP.

Lets face it any company with the balance sheet of the big three is not about to leave all the infrastructure they have built up because Australia asks them to pay the same tax as the ordinary citizen.

Australia is a stable well governed (except when libs are in power) country, and close to the markets.Sceptical: Where do you get all of that from? I have live through Prime ministers well before Menzies.  The most difficult times in my personal life were when Howard was treasurer. The income tax I paid then was far greater that it is on a percentage basis than it is now.

They were the days, despite the heavy tax burden when only the wealthy could go to university, and there was no medicare.

Howard, when times were good changed all of his thinking to stay in power. He gave unsustainable tax cuts to the middle class, something we are still stuck with, and even sunk as low as to use boat refugees to boost his political stocks.

You accuse Bill Shorten of standing in the way of jobs growth. Strange thing to accuse a former Union official of doing, but I suppose you mean protecting their right for decent wages.

There is every likelihood that had Labor still been in power the motor industry would have found a way to keep operating, saving thousands of jobs, and preserving technology and expertise.  Smaller countries like Sweden can produce cars, but this current Government admits that it is beyond us.

Your rant about the carbon tax is straight from the Liberal Party handbook.  In a very short time you will discover that the benefits that are supposed to flow from its "Axe the tax" fulfilment will not have any effect on the economy, or peoples pockets.

We have reasonably high labor rates because you have the highest living standards going around.  Start your conversation at the point of what you are willing to forego.I really wonder whether the public will do more than raise an eyebrow about this instance. Unless of course charges are laid by the police.

If as the author states, Labor only has to sit around and wait for the next election, shenanigans between politicians and the press are hardly likely to turn, in the public's mind, a bad government into a re electable one.Bluey: Although I am an unashamed Labor supporter, or as you would say in your most sneering manner, a "Leftie" I try to keep my comment within the bounds of reality.

Reading your contribution I immediately recognise an air of despondency disguised by false hope.

There is nothing coming out of Victorian politics at the moment, or indeed in recent times, except for this little hiccup, that should give you the optimism you forlornly express.robert: What a dopey comment! Classical Labor at work! Are you so deluded that you think the Liberals do not have their own "digger upper" of dirt files.  One of them had to take stress leave because after months and months of endeavours he could not dig up enough dirt on Julia Gillard to suit his masters whilst she was PM.

This latest, if reversed would have been manna from heaven for the Liberal party, far better than hounding Peter Slipper, and as the Judge said trying to pervert the  result of an election. 

 Things like this would have saved Tony Abbott standing in front of "Bob Brown's bitch" signs and encouraging Alan Jones to denigrate Gillard at every turn for being a red headed, unmarried, no children, atheist female Prime Minister.  The atheist bit is what really got Tony. It was like a slap in the face for him to believe that this woman was not so confused in her thinking that she no  believed in fairies, whereas he proudly announces to all that he does.

This instance will have as much lasting impact on the public as Joe Hockey, after months of denigrating the "Senate swill", putting on his softer face and sucking up to them to get a dog of a budget through.

In the end robert this "skulduggery" is the norm for all parties, and you are disingenuous to suggest otherwise.Alfie: What amuses me about the "Right" is that much of their commentary is laced with a  superior put down tone. It is like they still believe in the right of the days of 'Father knows best"

Actually Alfie those days are long past, and in the minds of many you should catch up with the times.

I have not heard any Labor supporter , or politician use either of the comments you refer to .  I have heard Liberal politicians use the state Greece is in to try and indicate where Labor was taking the nation.  Complete exaggeration of course, but that did not stop spin doctors from your side of the political fence.Well said Brian. "Realist" not being true to his name will not recognise the truth of what you have said.  Howard and Costello in times of plenty, not being good farmers, gave too much away to their constituency in good times. Now other Governments are laboured with the results of their profligacy.

Abbott is finding it more and more difficult to be a factor on the world stage.  Less promises, low level hope and sympathy would put him in better stead.Dave S: You have forgotten to mention that the diabolical medicare levy is not going to do anything to fix the bottom line. It is intended to go into medical research.  Talk about Labor thinking above themselves with NDIS and Gonski. 20bil on a plan that is dependant of discovering new medical miracles. 

One could understand if the Government said to BHP and Rio, "Hey you are making squillions out of our finite resources, what about you funding medical research so we will have something to show for you being here."  As it is now, all BHP and Rio can say is "What are you complaining about? We have left you plenty of holes in the ground where hills used to be."Waterloo: You obviously but a lie to that comment. You should you have said, "most readers here do not believe that", excluding yourself and other unenlightened.

Answered like a Liberal politician, avoided the subject matter.

The party enjoying your admiration is finding that their three word slogans are wearing a bit thin with the public.

Substance is the thing that will get the public vote any day, something so obviously lacking to date after almost a year of the most lack lustre government in this Nation's history.

Labor is aware of the state of the budget, they receive the same advice as the LNP does.  They know that Howard left huge ongoing deficits earning him the the kudos of being the most profligate Prime Minister ever. It is simply a matter of tackling the problem in a sensible manner. Extravagant PPL schemes do not fit into that equation.

Jonathan Green has written a good article, something you cannot recognise. You are more in tune with the likes of Bolt, Jones, and many of the journalists of the Australian Newspaper doing Murdock's bidding.So what is your point Waterloo. Shorten has not enunciated a new election policy, budget or anything else.  Not required of him at this stage.  On the other hand the LNP has.  They gave it their best shot. Result abject failure, or do you think it is a resounding success?SS.  If you were to take an unbiased look at the media coverage of this tragedy you would discover that News Corp, its journalists, and shows like PM live, also Sky news presenters have continually referred to Abbott's handling of the situation. They have being referring it to a possible increase in his popularity practically every day.

I do not know whether it is your putdown "Lefty" audience that are the only ones that can see this. I suspect that some from the right can also see that a little more circumspect commentary on the part of Abbott and Bishop would be better placed.

 It seems that even with the best of intentions it may not be possible to fulfil the promises made. Recovering remains from a 50 sq. km crash zone would be difficult, even with the full co operation of the government of the country concerned.  But in a war zone, more caution should be taken so far as promises are concerned.

SS.  If you were to take an unbiased look at the media coverage of this tragedy you would discover that News Corp, its journalists, and shows like PM live, also Sky news presenters have continually referred to Abbott's handling of the situation. They have being referring it to a possible increase in his popularity practically every day.

I do not know whether it is your putdown "Lefty" audience that are the only ones that can see this. I suspect that some from the right can also see that a little more circumspect commentary on the part of Abbott and Bishop would be better placed.

 It seems that even with the best of intentions it may not be possible to fulfil the promises made. Recovering remains from a 50 sq. km crash zone would be difficult, even with the full co operation of the government of the country concerned.  But in a war zone, more caution should be taken so far as promises are concerned.

Shocked Again: I really think that you have missed the point.
The point is caused by the stark reality that  boat people, migrants, refugees, deaths at sea,, how many should we take?,illegals, etc etc. is a political football, used by our political parties for the simple purpose of winning elections.

Where did this all start.  Frazer and Hawke were able to bring in boat people without too much dissent from the public.

John Howard however on the eve of an election took another stance. He knew that he could easily stir up resentment, and did so by accusing refugees of throwing children into the water, the implication that these people that would sacrifice their children are not welcome here. He followed up by his now infamous devastating speech"We will decide...".

That was the end of bipartisanship. Labor did not appreciate losing an election on the strength of xenophobia, and threatened to undo Liberal policies which were thought too harsh at the time.

The rest is history, and all of the discussion about real refugees fleeing persecution, economic refugees, que jumpers, sovereign borders, turning back boats etc, never will be settled in Australia while it is still just politics.

If you have any doubts that this is not so remember that Abbott had a bill board that he regularly updated, informing the world of how new boat arrivals. Now such information is kept even from Australian citizens. Also consider that the "Malaysian Solution" recommended by Angus Huston who Abbott calls to his aid so often, was then condemned by him as it was not a liberal idea, and if it did work, their greatest political tool would have been nullified.

Take the politics out of the boat people issue, and we will not only save billions, but more readily find a solution.

However the truth is that the public is the fool here as we give solace to the political party of our choice, no matter what the cost.You are quite right of course, but you will never get a politician to admit this. Howard knew it, and won an election on the zenophobia card. It still is a winner for the Coalition.  I wonder how a boat load of white Christian refugees fleeing Zimbabwe would be treated.

My personal complaint on this matter is not that we should take everyone that gets on a boat and arrives here, but that it has been used as a political tool when it should be a bipartisan issue.  Solutions would then be sooner arrived at.Also didn't he make some obscure observation that his religious beliefs would not impact on any policy decision. How about  religious chaplains in schools.  Add that to his collection.No Andie. Your ability to overlook the fact that we now have chaplains' in schools is what is writ large.  Prime Ministers that hold press conferences outside church do not impress me, but what policy did Rudd ever have that in any way was influenced by his religious conviction?

How could you so easily miss the point?AJS. Do nor misinterpret the facts. The previous Labor government's policy was to allow religious, and secular chaplains. In May 2014 the current government removed the passage where secular student well being officers could be employed, meaning all chaplains must be affiliated with religion. This is costing the taxpayer 244 million.

Be a bit more careful with your use of the word hypocrisy.

I personally resent the possibility of any of my grandchildren, being influenced at an early age into believing that any particular religious sect or belief has any credibility.  Such brainwashing should be left to churches, not schools.  It is then up to the parents to consider keeping their children out of the clutches of sects like the one highlighted on Four Corners last night.aGuy. It may surprise you that both our Government and  public schools are both supposed to encompass the code of secularity.  What this government is a change, at taxpayers expense.

John. How do you differentiate between Slipper and Ronaldson who at considerable expense to the taxpayer, flew to Queensland from WA on business for himself, and hoped to meet Warren Entsch to justify ripping off the taxpayer.

The difference was that someone one in the Liberal party complained to the AFP about Slipper, but no one in Labor was small minded enough to make the same complaint about the myriad of Liberal politicians, including the Prime Minister who did the same thing.Skelly: Do not give too much credit for his more "Leaderish" appearances lately. It is obvious he is on a tighter leash of late. Especially after his initial more bullish comments. He is correct to confine himself to an aim of "bringing them home", but even with some one else writing his scripts, the difficulties of making any predictions are becoming more and more apparent.

Australians love a strong leader, but it unfortunate that a monstrous tragedy in some way has changed into a popularity contest about him.  When it recedes in our thoughts as it eventually will he still has his domestic issues to deal with.The disappointing factor about the MH17 disaster that as a sideline it has been turned into a media population test for the PM.  He has done ok since he toned (no pun intended) down a bit, but the press are diminishing the seriousness of the issue by repeatedly asking people to comment on how well Abbott has handled it.  What else should we expect of a Prime Minister?  Ross Cameron, one of Abbott's more faithful supporters made comment to the fact that he thought that Abbott initially was going on a bit stridently when all of the facts were not known.

In any event every comment Abbot has been made to date no doubt has been written by someone with more grasp of the issues.

Another thing I find unusual is that now he has a sudden love for Angus Huston, rightly so, a competent operator. However when Abbott was in his hate refugee mode prior to the election he disregarded the advice of the committee Huston chaired.  Could that have been politics?John.  Until a respected economist said that the Howard government was the most profligate in Australia's history, something most people now accept, you had probably never heard of the word.

You are now using it in the wrong context. Your spin is good, but I am afraid, only spin.Julie: Your contribution is just a statement of the fact that you are a fierce liberal supporter, no matter what.

If you did read the article you will see that much of the current problem results from decisions made by Howard with his unnecessary taxation cuts to the people that did not really need them.  Indeed Rudd should have reversed them, but so should Abbott. Neither of the latter had the political courage.

You obviously do not think that Abbott's core promise, a PPL scheme that over indulges the rich does not come within your comment "Keep spending" so will you please enlighten us to what does.gp: I do not completely blame Joe Hockey, although his is responsible for a good deal of his current difficulties by going in too hard on the states of the economy, and the so called "Mess" left by the last Government.

Tony Abbott is just as culpable, because nothing is surer than that Hockey followed Abbott's guidelines when forming the budget. Now Abbott has found it opportune to slap Hockey down by saying "That is not something I would have said" in reference to poor people and cars. Really!

Some Government spending on welfare at the present time may be out of sync with the hope for a balanced budget in the future, but it is a sign of just how out of touch with reality the current Liberal Government is.  Anyone with a modicum of common sense should see the necessity of cutting waste from areas where it would not be felt, or affect the well being of the vulnerable, before attempting welfare cuts.

How Abbott could expect to spend over 20 bil. on a PPL scheme scheme, and sell this budget at the same time must surely be irrefutable proof that this mob is not fit to govern.Or perhaps studied Haed to improve their typing skills.

You seem to be suggesting that somehow the ordinary worker should be obsolete. Just imagine a world like yours where you would have to bury your own household refuse in your back yard. Would you be prepared to pay your mechanic more so he is in the "better job" class, or would you repair your car yourself?  How would stock the shelves in the supermarket in your ideal world, or attend your personal needs whilst you are in hospital?

We are presently an inclusive society, the well off are OK, and the less well off are being looked after.

The population as a whole can recognise a bad budget when they see one.

struck dumb: Agree with the overall thrust of your contribution, which seems to be if there is a problem with the system, fix it.

The Government's solution seems to be one of trying to service a faulty system by deterring those most in need, and can afford it least. No wonder it on the nose with most of the public.Eggy: The best idea by far is to pay by cash. I do and invariably get frustrated waiting in a queue while someone in front tries various cards to find one with a balance on it.  Check outs should have some for "Cash only".

Coles and Woollies have not got their claws into me, but then I would probably be accused of being behind the times.John: The very fact that this proposal comes from the Abbott government is enough for me to sit up and view it with suspicion.  For a start I would like to know that it was a worthwhile exercise when other countries have discovered that it was generally not worth the effort.

In your mind, obviously, some livers are worth more than others.  More life could be saved by spending the amount involved on saving deaths on the road.

There seems an assumption that people travelling overseas to fight their particular cause will come back and create havoc here.  They may only be supporting family and friends, and have no bad intentions towards Australia.

I agree that they should not be allowed to do this, and they should risk the cancellation of their passports.

The efforts of one particular nutter, and his brain washed child should not be taken as the norm and cause us to take draconic measures without a lot more thought than has thus been given.

You should have kept your political note to yourself because it also lets people know your address, Liberal headquarters somewhere.Nogood: No's 1 and 2 would have happened whatever government was in power.  The LNP was more willing to let the motor vehicle industry go under.

The NDIS was a Labor initiative, and of course it could not be delivered in the term of one government.  The reality is that is is only a Labor Government that introduces social policy of this type, and the country is better off for it.  Contrast it with Abbott's attempt in that area, his PPL scheme.

Your are blinded by your undying faith so far as your last paragraph is concerned.john1: No not hard to understand. However you are putting the best Liberal political spin on it. The voters can pass judgement as soon as it leaves the Treasurer's mouth.

The trouble is that most people can evaluate what affect it will have on them, hence the problem.

Your bit about " Belligerent opposition parties who seek political advancement" is a good one. Did you type that with a straight face, or have you only started your interest in politics since Abbott was elected?Morestone: You are right of course: The only conclusion we can take from the LNP attitude in this matter is that we do not have the same initiative or where with all of a country like Sweden.  This seems a bit strange when our Prime Minister likes being on the world stage so much, trumpeting to all that are bored enough to listen that we punch above our weight. 

I am sure that soon we will rue the day that Hockey told them to put up or shut up.  Holden and Toyota could surely have been saved had he, Hockey, been willing enough to spend the same on encouraging innovation in that area as he now has to on unemployment benefits.APM. There is nothing more pitiful than a person who does not want to see.

"They aren't allowed to govern". The people elected them to govern. That they have failed dismally in this endeavour is whose fault?

The very same people have said that they have failed to govern now, and into the future to a standard anywhere near to what they promised, or what the people expected.

Abbott promised the world, criticised everything Labor attempted, and now has in his front bench who insist on taking the lime light by proving they have no understanding of the needs of the Australian nation.

Abbott has been left to hope that he can gain some credibility on the coat tails of tragic disasters.  Goodness only knows why it is necessary to trot off to Europe. One would think we have not seen enough of him over these issues on TV already.

And looke who has leaves on the home front. When are we to get more gems from Andrews, Abetz, Brandis, Hockey et al.yank:  The latest is that we have almost completed a deal to send 1000 refugees off to Cambodia, that prime example of a democratic safehaven.  What is that going to cost us besides our good name. But what the hell that has already been trashed in the refugee area anyway.

I will be the first to agree that people smuggling requires a sensible and humane solution, this governments in its partisan efforts to date have failed to achieve.

Now that Howard and Abbott have both won an election on the back of this issue, surely it is time for all parties to work on this with one mind.

For a start, Abbott has lately used Angus Huston as a Mr.Fixit, when he previously ignored his report to the Labor Government on boat people.

Surely the best minds in the country, something the LNP have proven they have not got, working together, could find a remedy.

All this would require is for the Libs to give up boat people as their best political weapon.  Now would be a good time because no matter what they have up their sleeve, it is unlikely to earn them a second term, and the nation may thank them.Nevwww: I do not profess to be an expert on east european politics, but I think you must be essentially correct.

We should be a little wary when our own politicians consider that it is in our own best interests to talk tough.

Invariable it is usually done with the best interests of the politician concerned in mind.

Unfortunately I have no faith in the current government being capable of making correct long term decisions. To date they have well and truly earned my mistrust of their foreign affairs capability.Peter:  We are a nation of just over 20mil in the Southern Hemisphere, riding on America's coattails.  Do you really think that Putin loses much sleep over what Australia thinks?

Abbott's performance is for domestic consumption, and he probably, like you, has no idea of the political goings on in Russia, or the Ukraine.

We should never give in to bullies and idiots, but neither should we be known as a nation with a propensity to put its
 foot in its mouth.

Abbott should contain himself to matters of the tragedy of the downed aircraft, and endeavour to make the best out of a very convoluted situation which includes a war zone. Talking tough has done little to assist there.

Your last sentence hardly defines you as an intellectual giant!gray: You are quite right about agriculture. I see where now even milking the cows has become so mechanised that the farmer is almost incidental.

It is a great disappointment that we soon will no longer be producing cars.  Whose fault it that?  Apparently we have had no politicians that were able to achieve the  circumstances for a viable long term motor industry.

Perhaps there should be a Royal Commission into why this was so. Or better still why our political system does not throw up the intellectual skill to fully utilise the the huge benefits this country possesses in the way of natural resources, and human capital.

Instead we have a RC into pink batts, following numerous inquiries, because there may be some political capital in it.Peter: You are apparently happy to have your children, or grandchildren at some time realising that the "Tooth fairy" is not true, after being told by people they trusted that it was.  Why put them through that when you know as well as I do that the remains of the arc are not on mount Ararat, or that it was not possible in year one for a woman to have a virgin birth.

The subject here is about religious people being passed off as counsellors. Not on.  You should be prepared to pay for your religious obsessions if your want your kids to be brought up as ill informed as you are.  But then you also want public funding for such schools that teach religion.
The unfortunate fact is that we currently have a Government front bench to support you.Cannot agree with your take on this matter Dapsa. Nor do I see a credible double standard.  Abbott winked at the presenter in a manner that indicated to me that he was saying "Get a load of this one", or something along those lines.

I am prepared to accept that Lambie was asked an awkward question, and she thought she would answer it in a supposedly humorous manner, and it backfired.

I also believe that there is a difference in men making  sexual comment than if women do the same thing.  Men are not generally threatened about a women's sexual comment or act, and nor they should be.

Your comment on the make up of the Senate has more credibility, but you are obviously looking at from a liberal perspective.. There are many in both major parties that are only bench warmers, and others that can do more damage than Jacqui Lambie.Good grief and Jimmy.  You both have partially missed my point. Putting aside the debate on equality you both overlook the power of men, both physically and in the working environment.

I know of no man that would be intimidated by a woman making a sexual comment. Offended perhaps, but not really intimidated.  However the same does not apply to women because they are the ones that are subject to  sexual predations of the physically stronger species, that in many cases leads to unwanted attention, and occasionally their death.

Lambie's indiscretion was bad judgement by someone not used to answering personal media questions, but if you think this instance justifies misogynistic behaviour by males I am surprised.  You would be struggling to find a similar comment by another female politician, but the same cannot be said about Bill Heffernan, Tony Abbott standing in front of offensive signs, Alan Jones et al.Right Jimmy. But this is a forum where people project their own slant on life. I know of no men that would be intimidated by a sexual comment from a woman. As I said they may be offended, but would not lose too much sleep.

I see little point in men complaining at a recent phenomenon when women have been subject to such behaviour for eons.john1: You may be right. Your interpretation may be the best of the biased contributions on The Drum.  However I was only going on form.john1 Pretty poor effort. Abbott is Prime Minister, and he did say some things bordering on the offensive.  Lambie is a novice very very junior senator, probably not  bought up in the rarified  surrounds of Abbott, Hockey and Co.

Whether she has a right to be there is another question for the Electoral Commission, and Government.

She is different and time will tell whether this is her normal behaviour, and if it is I am sure she may pay the price. However for men to so offended is amusing.

I find Abbott's reference to women doing the ironing, and a PPL scheme for "Women of quality" more offensive.Alfie: You protest too much. You live in a world up until this point at least has been dominated by men.  When I married my wife had to give up her government job.

Now you are so easily offended, and use this apparently as an excuse to yearn for the old days.muzzg: You say "I am a conservative" as though that sets you above others.  That attitude is where conservativism fails. Bit like Abbott's "I am a Catholic", and of course a conservative.

The combination is a bit too much for the majority of the general public to keep up with, as recent, but consistent polls show.

You seem a bit holier than though. I will bet "Others follies" only means those of the Labor brand. If not you would have abandoned your conversatism by now.AJS. I had a 1950 model. Lots of fun. Bit surprised that an AJS rider can get so worked up with a foot in the mouth moment, when they happen so frequently with politicians.WA Lib: At least she will never be Treasurer of a State, nor is she likely to progress past having a casting vote.

You are fairly game coming out with such comment from WA.

Do not take my comment as approval of her behaviour, just pointing out people in glass houses etc etc.Yes Zing: We poor men. Oh the injustice of it all!  We are all so shocked and offended. She should be hounded out of politics, and learn to keep such fields of conversation to the ladies room.. Will we ever get over our hurt feelings?pfd:  You comments are eminently sensible. Megaphone diplomacy will serve no purpose with a nation that has a belligerent tendency at the best of times.

There has been a chaotic response, but this is an unprecedented disaster. The crash scene covers tens of square kilometers in a war zone. Local authorities are presented with an international tragedy that they are ill prepared to adequately deal with. Russia is on the defensive,and the west is expecting procedures to be as effective as though it happened in their own back yard.

It is disappointing to see that our own leaders are being  given points by elements of the press on a basis of how they are performing to suit the domestic politics.  Sky News is one of the worst eliciting comments from the likes of Graeme Morris praising Abbott for his strong stance, and virtually giving him 10 out of 10.

This is not an issue of domestic politics, but an international disaster that requires common sense by our leaders, as they seem to be appropriately doing. We should be expecting nothing less, and questions like "How do you think Abbott and Bishop are handling this" are irrelevant, unless they are making a complete botch of it.

It is too early to make decisions about Putin attending the G20, and such decision should be one of consensus.It is beyond contemplation that he personally gave authorisation for the destruction ot the airliner, but it remains to be seen how much of the blame is sheeted home to him.Alpham. I am pleased to know that someone is fully versed on the problems in the Gaza conflict, and are not driven by ideology.  I too was wondering how an ordinary suburban Palestinian family could put a stop to Hamas activities.  Apparently it only needed them to protest loudly, and they would be alive today.

Hamas are certainly, from all accounts are culpable, but the retaliation seems just a little excessive, but according to you, that is ok. After all they are probably not the same religion, which seemingly is the root of most of the evil in this world.James:  Are you for real?  Ask the Iraqi population. Put to them the question, "We are going to free you from the dastardly deeds of Saddam Hussein, but to do so we are going to kill up to 400.00 of your citizens, is that OK."  Stop hiding behind a ridiculous argument.

Is not the dictator from Zimbabwe just as culpable as Saddam, or the remieme in North Korea?

I am all for changing despotic dictatorships whenever possible, but surely by now the "Goodies" should have learned that it should be done at the expense of huge numbers of the civilian population.Zing: Have read a few of your posts, hoping for some enlightenment. However I think that most deaths in Iraq were civilian, caused by American bombing.

Of course there will never be a Royal Commission, as a Liberal Government is only interested in RC's that could embarrass Labor. Abbott did not even want one into institutionalised sex abuse against children for fear of damaging the Catholic Church.   Labor has never been interested in RC's to investigate Liberal cathrosphies, probably because there are too many.  Abbott and Downer are relatively safe as Labor will not be bothered to further investigate the Wheat Board scandal, not sending us to war on a lie, as Andrew Wilkie would say.yank: It is indeed strange that the simple proposition you enunciate seems too difficult for so many to comprehend.  Most reputed scientists state that Co2 is trapped within our own atmosphere and therefore traps heat.  Seems simple yet vested interests led by Rupert Murdock, and his not so credible journalists like Miranda Devine and Terry McCrann can sprout their contempt for those that believe the science. To these so call journalists there is no middle ground, no doubt, no chance that they could be wrong.

Abbott's motives of course are ones of personal self interest. He became Prime Minister on the back of the ideology of the Coalition beholden to the likes of Murdock and the big emitters.

As the author points out the "Victory" seems somewhat hollow.  What now?. The general public will not notice much, and after a while when that not much is forthcoming, will begin to ask other questions that Abbott will find hard to answer.That is not true Peter. If you mean not yet any long term perfect solution, you may be closer to the point.  However polluters being encouraged to clean up their act, or be penalised, not paid and alternative energy initiatives, and there are many of these  is a good start.

It is rather a strange outlook on a problem to take the stance by saying that if we have not the complete solution we should do nothing.  Edison took a while before he perfected his electric light. That is the nature of things.

Realist. If you put one bag of super per acre on a wheat field, you will get a good crop.  If you put 100 bags on it will be burnt off.snickersee: So scientists have at least convinced you that climate change is real.  Unless you are an expert in the field, there is no other way for you to come to that conclusion.

Strange how journalists' employed by News Corp can come to the completely different position although they have no scientific background.

However that aside, if you believe the bulk of scientific evidence, why not be prepared to believe that in the long turn, global warming can be reversed by an attack of excessive emissions.

There seems little sense in putting your house on stilts, and not trying to divert the flood water.

.phil: Ok I should have said that scientists have convinced snickersee that anthropogenic climate change is real.

My point is, and I think you know this is if scientists have got him convinced to that extent, why doesn't he accept their solutions?

We all know that normal temperature changes have happened every 30.000 years or so. To try and relate that fact to what is happening now is the tall ask.

Your last sentence says it all. I suggest we ask the scientists, not the industrialists.I wonder how many of those emitters have gambled on Tony's success, and have slowly but surely increased their emissions already.  They will now be in a prime position to get his nod.aguy: Palmer's idea will never see the light of day. It will be a simple matter for any PM to say that one or other of our trading partners nominated is not quite up to standard.  In any event it is also not likely to be of any value, because Abbott is unlikely to be PM long enough, and Labor will introduce something of more use to the environment.

The day of the deniers is slowly by surely coming to an end. Even if anthropogenic global warming is all hogwash world leaders are acting as though it is a fact, and Australia, if it does nothing will be somewhere in the wake.What are you saying. Go nuclear, and worry about the waste later?

Nuclear may be ok if civilisation was only going to last another couple of hundred years. However hopefully for our descendants that is not the case.

In reality, the current generation is not prepared to suffer a slight decrease in the improvement of our standard of living to make minor sacrifices now.

Australia is in that happy, dubious position of saying that, as the Bolts' of this world keep saying,  whatever we do will not make much difference.  An accurate statement only if we are happy to disregard all our morals and principles which we are being asked to to by this Coalition government.Then again: To ask an ordinary, but nevertheless concerned contributor to the Drum for a solution to the now almost universally accepted problem of anthropogenic global warming is a bit optimistic.

All I can say is that I would not follow this government, and do nothing, whilst pretending that "Direct action " is sound policy.

I would continue with investment in alternative energy, put some price on the polluting act of producing CO2, to encourage innovative change, and over time aim at the reduction of coal production and usage.

These steps which will not destroy our economy taken now seem eminently sensible.

You may have the ultimate solution, but can science as we know it cope with a world completely dependent on nuclear energy. I doubt it.

then again. A few more than from wind farms, in fact hundreds more.

Are you all for burying the world's waste in the centre of Australia too?Then Again . You are just copping out. Your solution is no solution. Replacing one problem with another.AJS. Back that up with some examples.. If I said that the Abbott Government is the worst in living memory, (which it is), I would give my reasons for thinking so. Otherwise the readers would just think that I was an unreasonable biased Labor supporter.Now that didn't hurt did it. AJS  (Had an AJS motor bike once, they were better days). However if you want progressive policies like Medicare and the like that will never see the light of day under a Coalition Government, you must expect some minor problems and diversions along the way.

Have you ever sat down and worked out the advantages and disadvantages of  pink batts and school halls vs the GFC, and wondered where we we would have been today. No I suppose not you would sooner listen to Abbott's mantra, as about intelligent as hearing "Axe the tax" every waking hour.

Assertions are not proof, but what is not in dispute is that Abbott had to return falsely claimed TA, as did many of his ministers.  Abbott , the Prime Minister on a more than healthy wage, thought nothing of his daughter receiving a  scholarship, because of who she is that could have gone to someone more deserving.

By the way has he convinced you about the policy (PPL) that at one time was going to be introduced "Over my dead body". Yes, well that says it all.

Direct action. Seeing you support the Coalition so much, and voice shock horror at government waste, please explain how that is not just paying taxpayers money to his constituency. Particularly as it is "All crap" and he is a "Weather vane" on the issue.Yank. Have to agree. Sometime down the track people will ask 'How did that come about"  The Answer will be "OH it depended on what day of the week it was when our Prime Minister decided what was best for the country".

Who knows what Abbott stands for. It is apparent that in regards to climate change, his final stance was taken on a decision of what was best for him personally.

Can we afford to have a "Weather Vane" running the country. This moods and thought bubbles can get very expensive, even if he is able to convince most of his front bench that a dud policy is a good one, like his PPL scheme, and direct action.Ben: How is it that you can so quickly dismiss the benefits of alternative energy, and processes that have some influence of emitters in investing in innovative technology. To say "For no reason" is evidence of lack of any kind of vision on your part. That sort of attitude is worrying, and typical of those that adhere to Coalition ideology of a century ago.

To infer that Australia is in dire straights because of the carbon tax is dishonest, and to state that all things will now be in order because Abbott has done the unforgivable is actually false, and the government knows it.

If Abbott retains you type of thinking, which he undoubtedly will do his government is in trouble.AJS. Yes Rudd had that particular peculiarity about him, but he never inferred that because he was religious he was better than any one who was not. Nor did he have regular meetings with his religious mentor. Nor were his policies in any way determined by religious beliefs. Nor did he try and spread the word by appointing Chaplains to brainwash young minds.

The party you demean in your second paragraph is leading in the polls by a winnable margin. Perhaps you should turn your bias into thinking, or trying to understand the reason why.  If you want any help in that thought provoking issue just make an appeal on The Drum.gbe: His religious beliefs are relevant if he at every instance displays them as some sort of relevant  attribute.  The fact that he was at a seminary for three years is no secret, that he had regular meetings with George Pell, that he is narrow in his thinking on ethical issues, that he has a policy of chaplains in government schools, are all factors that the public that generally supports secularity in government has a right to be concerned about.  The fact that his front bench is filled with similar bigoted ideologues is also a concern.

I have no wish to be governed by anyone that still believes in issues that captured the imagination of the world 2000 years ago.  We have had Darwin and Einstein since then.You can cling to that line all you want. However to do so requires you to disregard the history around the statement. Something that does not bother the Coalition or its followers.

First and foremost Labor always wanted a price on carbon. John Howard agreed. Turnbull, before he suffered the back wound, also engineered a policy suitable to both parties.

Abbott did his dirty deed, and then started the anti carbon price tirade that you cannot resist repeating.

Labor tried to get its ETS through on three occasions, but was thwarted by Abbott, so Gillard changed tactics, but always wanted a price on carbon.

There was a hung parliament, and the price of retaining government was a carbon tax.  Gillard did the nation a favour, defeating Abbott who did everything but "Sell his a...se to win over the independents.

She did the nation a favour because we can now all see that the Abbott Government is a failure.

All of the above is a fact. The last paragraph is my opinion.Ben: The Coalition under Abbott is giving Labor enough leeway to dream up anything, because by now the public is realising that nothing could be worse than the mob they stupidly voted for.

Repeating slogans like "Weaker borders" will not cut it any more. We have had six years of Abbott slogans and exaggerations, and as the author has pointed out in relation to the carbon tax they have all been so much hot air.

Your only hope is to ditch Abbott, replace him with Turnbull, and then tell Turnbull to stop trying to be a belittling comedian, and be the natural sensible politician he can be. That way you may get another term, but not to be too hopeful.yank: Do not forget that Tony Abbott spent three years in a Seminary. Science would not exactly be on top of the curriculum. In fact it was probably drummed into him that God mad the earth in six days, rested on the seventh, and he was not about to let it be destroyed by a little carbon.

The Coalition, in its saner moments under Turnbull agreed to tackle co2.. Abbott has turn that policy into one of paying his supporters to not pollute so much.  A bit like graffiti vandals being paid not to vandalise.In that case Alfie you should work hard to get rid of a Prime Minister who has actually said he believes in anthropogenic climate change and is happy to spend billions on his mates the big polluters to pollute less.

The of course he also said "Climate change is all crap", sort of two bob each way.The leading Chinese newspaper call Julie Bishop "Stupid" following her stupid uncalled for comments recently about protecting our national interests.

These comments by her were just a love at hearing her own voice. had no relevance to anything concerning Australia and were best unsaid.  I thought that the Minister for Foreign Affairs had to be some sort of a diplomat.  Unnecessarily offending our leading trading partner seems a strange way of finalising a fta.This subject is probably beyond the scope of most people to form an intelligent opinion because of the lack information available to ordinary citizens to effectively do so.

We can only hope that those charged to this responsibility do have the information and nous not to go overboard.

HOWEVER I am afraid that if this proposed legislation is sponsored by George Brandis my confidence that it is appropriate in the circumstances is lacking.  Brandis has not shown that he has a grasp of his portfolio so far as the expectations of the public is concerned.Hewson rightfully asks how can policies once endorsed by the majority of Australians later become so toxic.  The answer is apparent, Tony Abbott and his ambition to occupy the Lodge, and vested interests.

One of the vested interests of course was Walter Murdoch, who restated that he is against the NBN, the other being mining companies.

We now have a man with no vision for Australia, at war with most of the community, and creating a pretty poor impression with the rest of the world, even though he claims to have many new best friends.

Strange how past Liberal leaders, in retirement seem to have a very poor opinion of the Liberal Party, its leader, and their plans for the future of this country. They are not alone there.JessC: Labor did not have six years to do the things you think it should have. A good part of that time it was grappling with the GFC,and you will have to admit it came out of that pretty well.

Labor did attack middle class corporate welfare, but had to also battle a determined, negative opposition in doing so.

The "Draconian measures" you refer to need further explanation, what are they?

Your last paragraph does not pass the reality test. It is too broad.

Your inference is that the Liberal party is all of the good things that Labor is not.  Not a lot of people seem to agree with you.Dan:  Cannot agree about the American system. Money has too big a part to play.

The truth is that no method is perfect, and that adopted in Australia has its faults. Proof of that is the election of Tony Abbott by one vote over Turnbull.  What was the cause of that?  Abbott at one time was considered a joke when mentioned in the same breath as conjecture of future prime ministers.  Turnbull was the leader, has the persona appearance, and intelligence to be so.  What happened?  Vested interests of course.  Abbott is paying back the debt today, even if it does reposition the nation back in the time of the arc.  But that is ok Tony believes in it.clete: You have made the most improbable comment to date, in your forlorn hope that the polls will show a renewed support for Abbott.  He has been there, and lost it. The real wonder is how he really got there. All of the whistle stop exaggerations are now coming home to roost.  There is not a chance in the world that the average household will be $550 better off now that he has wrecked our only environmental legislation.

It is going to take someone a lot smarter than Abbott to put the Liberal party on the right track, but unfortunately for them the only one capable has already been once knifed.

However it will be interesting to see the political scene from the Coalition's point of view when, in about 12 months, only about half of the budget, or less has past the Senate, and the country is in worse debt than when they took over.

Political survival is likely to see the demise of Abbott, and the wheel turn a full circle.peter; Surely you can do better than that. Yes so you vote Liberal.  Bill Shorten  was never in charge of Australia's purse strings, so in a few years from now it will be for the first time.

Are we supposed to believe that Abbott is not doing the light fantastic at Palmer's whim now?

Is the fact that Abbott's first budget looks like being in a worse position than Labor's last, a happy day for Australia?
IanM. You are as insincere about deaths at sea as the hypocrites you support.  The LNP were gleefully welcoming boats that put to see, and had a bill board announcing every new arrival.  Any death at sea  may have put a slight damper on their stupidity, but probably would not have stopped it.

John Howard milked boat arrivals for all he was worth, "Children overboard" xenophobia, "We will decide..." etc. He got you in, and it has been a "Good little earner" for the Liberal Party ever since.

Abbott is currently ensuring that the budget  he brought down will be leave our finances worse than he took over.  Should we all be rejoicing at that?John: Thank goodness you will never be in charge of writing Australia's political history. The deaths at sea were a result of the unpredictable weather.  Morrison has not stopped the boats. He just gets to them before they can land, and has been lucky so far.

In any event a true an accurate account of historical fact will show that John Howard ensured that Australia did not adopt a bipartisan policy towards boat refugees because he told lies about people throwing their children into the water, and creating xenophobia. He did this to win an election so the question to ask is really  was another term of the Howard Government worth all those lives and the expense we are still incurring.

Had Howard appealed to Labor for bipartisan solutions to the issue,... well just ask yourself.

Shorten did not immediately gain from the demise of RUDD or Gillard, not like Abbott with Turnbull.

You seem to be in the minority wanting to stay with "This mob". Any chance you will see the light too?John1: I do not know how many people will agree with you, but we do know that what you are praising is the Liberal way.

1. Get most of your money from those that can afford it least.

2. Keep in place all middle class welfare you can, and rescind any policy that Labor has introduced to cut it out.

3. Introduce a PPL scheme that will ensure that "Women of quality" will give due consideration to returning to employment at sometime in the future.

4. Dumb down the masses with so much debt that in the end only the elite will be able to afford a decent education.

5 Make everyone work till they drop, or at least reach the age of some Liberal politicians.

6. Make pensioners do with less in the future, because they are getting a bit above themselves expecting butter on their bread.

7.Keep all rorts and schemes brought in by John Howard to ensure that all of those worthy elite can enjoy a good retirement.

8. Put chaplains in schools so that in the end everyone will be like the Liberal front bench, and eventually we can have out own Tea Party.

9.Charge the poor to see the doctor, so that in the end they may not go, get terminally ill, and thus lower the burden on the welfare system.

And so on and so on.You are defeating your own argument slothskin. By your own reckoning, in the current scheme the taxpayers should at least co me out even.

There is another thing to remember of course, and that is taxpayers pay for everything. Why not a clean energy future.  You pay to have your rubbish removed, and your streets cleaned, why not the rest of the environment?

Abbott wants to pay people for not throwing rubbish in the street.happy: Unless you live in a cocoon you would have seen visions of the northern glaciers melting, and massive chunks of ice caps falling into the sea. In the Antarctic the waters war warming, and also eroding ice. In Australia we are experiencing the hottest years on record.

All of this country's woes on climate change are caused by one man who will not accept even these basic facts to a point where he will do anything about it, but yet believes implicitly in a superior entity no one has ever seen, of whom there is no proof that even approaches the evidence of MM climate change.

Read again the words of John Howard, and ask yourself who is the most credible Prime minister If you are going to pick Abbott may his God help us.

virgil. It is a pretty poor commentary of this Government when it may be saved by the defeat of its own policies.

However the poll have remained the same now for several months. There does not seem much chance that the LNP can recover. After all they yet have to bring on the most unpopular policy in modern history, the Abbott policy to prove he loves women more than Labor does by upping their PPL scheme to  ridiculous extremes. But of course this may be one of his brain explosions that should go under, enabling him to spin his way out of making his government look more stupid than it is.Charles: Surely the need for science to provide more proof would only be necessary if we did not have the evidence of our own eyes.

Surprising how you can adopt your stance, yet in all probability if you went to a medical specialist you would dwell on his every word, even though the symptoms were no more obvious.

A huge proportion of the population of the world believe and accept the existence of a superior being in one form or the other, with no conclusive evidence. The contradictions between the various beliefs of the world's religions are far greater than the logic arguments against anthropogenic climate change.  The lack of belief in the latter possibly has more severe consequences.  The world's belief in the former will not fix the climate like I suspect our Prime Minister thinks.Ian Verrender has succinctly summed up what a great number of Australians think, and his words are likely to gain more credence at time passes.

The Liberal politician to suffer most out of the climate debate is the unfortunate Greg Hunt. Has there ever been someone less convincing? This was to be expected and it is surprising that Abbott asked him to rail against his previously well held beliefs, and accept a ministry for what it has turned out to be The Ministry against the environment. Hunt has served his master, but failed the environment, and he will be judged accordingly.

With all Abbott's bluster, talk of mandates, it now appears that the budget will be in a worse position than when he attained Government.  Complaining about obstruction from other parties will not assist his argument. His political promises and ill conceived budget were  presented on the basis of being delivered by the Liberal Party. No different than the previous government, which he obstructed at every turn.

Had the Labor Government been supported by the Liberals, as they now expect of Labor, the refugee problem would more than likely be settled with the adoption of the Malaysian solution.  However in that case the LNP action was of pure cussedness and political opportunism, compared to now Labor's concern for the environment.

Nip. It is a bit rich to suggest that the rich are intelligent financial wizards.  Remember those that did get their wealth from using their intelligence probably got said intelligence from a free education system.

Much of the country's wealth was inherited, as you well know.

However that is not the point.  The point is that a competent government should be capable of seeing the problem, if one really exists, assess the outcomes for the future of the country, and then make decisions that are easily justified to the people, fiscally sound and achievable.

A Government does not stay in power by appeasing only its true believers.  It has to convince the majority that "The Grown ups are really in charge".  This government has failed to do that, and are well and truly down the path of being one term. From all accounts even that is too long, because there are signs that by the next election the state of our finances will be worse than when they took over.  Hockey my live to rue the day he jacked up the deficit.I think we need a debate on the value or otherwise on the policy of negative gearing.  Governments are afraid to touch this, because it is easier to make poor people pay $7.50 to see the doctor.

Negative gearing is not the only plum for those that already are well, to various degrees, but really we should have a sensible debate as to whether it is good for a strong, fair economy or not.Trent: I think you miss the point.  The war is long over, and most people have gotten on with their lives.

It simply was not necessary for Abbott to make any comment whatsoever to appease Japanese feelings. It was virtually grovelling, and inappropriate.  The fact that we buy Japanese cars should be enough to convince their makers that Australians are willing to live and let live.

It was certainly an affront to the RSL, and if you have read the very telling account of our war in the pacific in books like "Coastwatchers" you could easily understand why.

Gratuitous comment in diplomatic circles surely is not a must. It is unlikely that will cement friendships, but has the possibility of offending others.

And " The adults are in charge"!!!You second paragraph indicates that you go to print voicing comment on the first thing that comes to mind.

If you read it again you will see that you are asserting that when Labor was trying to deal with this problem, that it had the full support of the" refugee advocates."  Or are you saying that all "refugee advocates" are Green party members, and they have a hatred for both Labor and Liberal.

Of course neither of the above is correct.

My own contribution to this issue is that, initially, way way back, had both major parties decided to find solutions in a bipartisan way,there would more than likely be a satisfying result by now.

Instead it is the most partisan situation on the political calendar, keeping scores of deaths at sea, boat arrivals and the like.

In truth no party has lily white hands, and both have made a botch of it.janice.
That is just the point, Labor did not do it.  You conveniently believe the spin of Liberal politicians and spokespersons, without even applying the common sense test.

Once you do that your comment loses all credibility. Labor has never intercepted a refugee boat at sea, applied a four question test, and attempted to return them to Sri Lanka.

Labor did return refugees by air once they had peen put through the proper procedures on land, and been determined to not be refugees.

The fact that  you cannot see the difference presents a difficulty for Australian politics, because it seems that much of our policy emanating from supposed public opinion is formed by this government on false premises.big joe: Amazing! I would have thought that one comment making a fool of yourself would have been enough.Pete: Yes interesting, provided you keep in mind that the author is one of Rubio's staffers.

From where I sit Clinton is a shoe in, mainly because the American presidency is usually decided on domestic issues. Similar in fact to Australia, although if our own Foreign Minister keeps on her merry way, and continues to make un necessary gratuitous comments our trading relationships may suffer.

It is unlikely that Hillary Clinton would say "We have every right to defend our national interests" alluding to China when such comment is completely unnecessary, and out of left field.Abbott and Morrison  have not actually stopped the boats, all they have done, at great expanse, is stopped boats from reaching Christmas Island, or the Australian mainland.

Stopping the boats would actually mean stopping any boat from leaving port, which they cannot do.

We are kept in the dark as to how many boats have been apprehended, legally or otherwise, and can only wonder as to how long this farce will continue.

The mismanagement of the asylum seeker issue from the time of Howard to the present seems to be the accepted norm, and in the meantime Australia's reputation internationally is being trashed.  But what the hell Abbott is making new best friends in Asia on a daily basis, or is he? Does grovelling ensure that you are on the new best friend list.

Oh for some politicians with some nous to tackle difficult issues, and a few with diplomatic skills.Abbott and Morrison followers immediately attack any correspondent on these columns if they are not a "Children overboard" adherent.

They jump to the conclusion that anyone criticising their methods is advocating an open door policy.  They ask stupid questions like, "How many would you let in"  "or "How many more deaths at sea do you want". They have other irrelevant questions to ask, but never question the Australian Liberal National Coalition for using boat refugees as a political tool.

Howard did, and he was so successful that Abbott from day one when he (To use one of their expressions) knifed Malcolm Turnbull.  His mantra of "Stop the boats" we have heard for over six years.  He did not want Labor to do it so and resisted any attempt by them that might be successful like the Malaysian solution. Guess what his reasons were, "We do not want to infringe their human rights."

With a normal and civil Government and opposition, working together this issue could have been a bipartisan one, but in the first instance re-election was more important to Howard, and election more important to Abbott.

The coalition has been so juvenile that when in opposition they had bill boards, depicting boat arrivals, and now the only information we get is "No arrivals for X number of weeks.

These are facts, draw your own conclusions.Zing: I have followed your argument to this point, and have come to the conclusion that, in the main, your opinion is driven by religious belief.

Ideally euthanasia would be the process of some accredited person injecting a lethal substance, after all of the formalities have been adhered to. It therefore would not strictly be suicide.

My worst nightmare would be to be incurably ill, unable to attend to my bodily functions,and to have lost all dignity.

I deeply resent anyone suggesting that for religious grounds  my days will have end in pain, humiliation, and at huge cost to the state that day by excruciating day tries to keep me alive.

In the circumstances I have outlined, who gives a damn about the UN Charter.Oh, I am sure Tony will be on the phone as soon as possible welcoming his new best friend, telling him, as julie said, "We do not seek their permission, only their understanding".I am sure that all of the new Senators required two days at the Senate School if only to learn not to honestly answer questions, how to spin, never give the opposition any credit, and do not stick to your principles.

I have just turned question time off half way through because I could not stand listening to senator Cash evidence how well she had learned all of the demeaning tricks.

She was asked how the Government could be sure that refugees sent directly hack to Sri Lanka, after being assessed on board ship, would not be sent into harms way.  Seems a reasonable question, and one we should all be concerned about, unless of course the Government has really done its job, and we couldn't care less.

Senator Cash then went on with the usual spiel about secrecy and all that, and the issue being before the high court, but then the insulting our intelligence bit started.

She called the questioner a hypocrite, because Labor had also returned refugees to Sri lanka. The difference being of course that under Labor they had been processed on land, and not found to be true refugees, with nothing to fear from the Sri Lankan government, and others were volunteers.

Anyone who listened to this is only more disillusioned about the intelligence of our politicians, or alarmed at the contempt they show for the intelligence of the public.

One doubts from what I have seen from the present crop that they will be so easily swayed into the world of insincerity, because they will never be offered a parliamentary promotion, and have to tow the line.Well he was right Jeremy, and was entitled to say so.

For example I did not at any time vote for Howard., but he had earned the name of "Honest Johnny", and I was prepared to give him a go. After all "It was time"

I was happy with Howard's prime ministership in his early years, but it was when, in desperation he won an election by demonising boat people, and shaming Australia, that I wished him gone.

Abbott on the other hand has engendered no such feeling that he could lead this country to anywhere other than to something akin to the American Tea Party.

He was divisive from day one, demeaning the Prime minister at every turn, mainly because she was a woman. In this he was helped by a compliant News Corp.  He called the Government illegitimate, and worked to bring it down, irrespective of the greater good.

The current state of the political parties in the Senate are an indication of disunity overall, distrust and a general malaise.  Is Abbott responsible? Assuredly.gbe: It now seems that the LNP is trying to "Dumb down" the Abc. First step appointment of Janet Albrechtsen and her Liberal colleague to ensure only conservatives get on the board.

Well good luck to them. To dumb down the ABC it will be necessary to undermine all of the ethics and writing skills of its journalists, as as happened with News Corp.

For the LNP to receive what they would consider good news coverage, they should start with good governance.Zing: You have said nothing, except assert that Abbott did not know the sign was there, and some marchers wore offending T shirts.

Your memory loss about the behaviour of Abbott over six years in opposition is astounding.

Perhaps this would be a good time to ask yourself why is it that he has the lowest rating ever for a new Prime Minister.

It certainly cannot be because I think he is an incompetent, and will drag Australia backwards. My opinion has never been recorded in a poll.

Bruce: It has become fashionable to speak of Labor when last in Government as a lot of undisciplined rabble. But if you caste your mind back, Rudd, for a time was the most popular PM on record.  They had plans tor an emissions trading scheme, popular with the public and with agreement of the opposition. They had plans for health and education, an NDIS and NBN.

They were then systematically destroyed by vested interests, an opportunistic Tony Abbott, with the relentless assistance of  News Corp.  And they had to cope with the worst recession since the great depression.

Labor made o botch of it against such pressure, but look what we have today.   A prime minister with the lowest approval rating ever for a new government, no policies for the future. A denial of global warming.  A breaker of promises, one of which was not to accept vote from the undisciplined independents.

A Government that wants to fix a so called economic disaster by unfair means, and is so unpopular that it would lose an election at this time.

Their only success is achieved by using our defence forces to turn back a few defenceless boats full of desperate refugees, and keeping quiet about the methods, but trumpeting the result.  Even the shine from this success is somewhat dimmed when you ask yourself whether sending people to Sri Lanka is any better than sending them to Malaysia. Probably not.  Strange that Sri Lanka is now our new best friend, and at the time Malaysia was demeaned.

There is nothing this government can do from this time on that would make up for it's actions over the time of the Labor Government, and its own time in power.whogo: You have not commented on my version of the build up to Labor's demise,the influence of News Corp. or pathetic attempts by this govt. to convince us they are a worthy alternative.   I take it that is a "Yes"Agree Lucy. Like the first cause of the boat people dilemma was John howard using the plight of refugees as a political tool instead of seeking bipartisan support to come to long lasting solutions.Swan Dive:
"Two parties with no vision" You lost credibility in your first line. Your comment is apparently meant to be taken with an assertion that the LNP has vision.

Health, Education, NDIS, NBN are all areas where Labor showed vision.  What is the Liberal vision, beside kill all of the above, and stopping the boats by furtive and illegal means?

You are not really up with the Australian political scene are you!mick:  You are not in touch with reality.  You now take it as a given that the ABC is biased towards Labor because Liberal politicians say so.

Howard appointed Janet Albrechtsen to the board of the ABC, together with other Liberal sympathisers , apparently in his mind to correct this imbalance. It apparently did not do the trick, because the ABC still reported things as they were.

Now we have Albrechtsen appointed to a committee, with another Liberal follower, to ensure that no one slips past that is not a dyed in the wool conservative.

Well news for you and Abbott. The ABC journalists will still stick to their ethics, something that those employed by Murdoch have failed to do.

What you and your leader call bisa is actually, in the main, factual, and informative.

The conservative ideology makes it difficult for any journalist to write positively about LNP policy, none of which is new, exciting, or forward looking.mick: Again you are not in touch with reality. Just read the polls, and believe half of them. You will still see why Abbott is not liked.

Do you want some reasons.

His religious views are typical of the American Tea Party, and he somehow mistakenly thinks that his Catholicism makes him a better person than others.  His front bench is the same. Abetz has gone from demeaning independent senators to now calling them,"All Gods children"

He is a global warming sceptic, despite all of the obvious facts, but is prepared to waste money on stupid schemes.

He imposes his religious beliefs by insisting in Chaplains in schools, at public expense.

He thinks women are of most use doing the ironing, and has gone from a PPL scheme over his dead body to the worst attempt of appeasement in living history.

He has managed to turn even those that voted for him against him and his narrow,unfair and ineffective government.

In foreign affairs everyone is his new "Best friend", one cringes.

All this and more after he spent six years demeaning our first woman prime minister, and giving tacit permission to the likes of Alan Jones to use gutter politics.

Do you remember "Whyalla wipeout" and all of the outlandish claims he made through those excruciation years he was in opposition.  Well many of us do.

It you watched 4 corners last night you will have a bit of an idea how far Abbott and his incompetent front bench will drag us down.clete: How convenient for you to have a short memory. It only goes back to Labor.  Easy to forget how this issue became so politicised. Shall I remind you, not that you have really forgotten.  John Howard won an election by demonising boat arrivals. He accused them of throwing their children into the water. Now this to any right thinking person would be considered unlikely. Most people would die for their children. But Howard realising this, sent out Peter Reith with a few dodgy photos to try and prove the falsity.  Then came that rousing speech "WE WILL DECIDE......

Labor of course objected to such tactics, and now we have the present position with you glorifying in some very doubtful actions of the current government.

Now if you were to be honest you would say that if both parties, from the beginning worked in a collaborate way on this issue, it would have been solved years age, without the loss of lives and massive cost.

My point Roberto, as you well know is that Howard used that particular issue for a political purpose. How else could you explain such a nationalistic speech. It worked, he won an election soon after, with a huge percentage of Australians believing him. The implicit message was," We do not want this type  here."  Something he wanted us to believe was that they were capable of actions somewhat less than human.  You may also remember he refused to retract, even though advised the information was doubtful.

It is popular to now decide that the ends justifies the means, but will you not at least agree that had he acted in a bipartisan way the problem would not have arisen.

You give Howard undue credit for not acting in a political manner, as Abbott and Morrison have ever since.

My point Roberto, as you well know is that Howard used that particular issue for a political purpose. How else could you explain such a nationalistic speech. It worked, he won an election soon after, with a huge percentage of Australians believing him. The implicit message was," We do not want this type  here."  Something he wanted us to believe was that they were capable of actions somewhat less than human.  You may also remember he refused to retract, even though advised the information was doubtful.

It is popular to now decide that the ends justifies the means, but will you not at least agree that had he acted in a bipartisan way the problem would not have arisen.

You give Howard undue credit for not acting in a political manner, as Abbott and Morrison have ever since.

My point Roberto, as you well know is that Howard used that particular issue for a political purpose. How else could you explain such a nationalistic speech. It worked, he won an election soon after, with a huge percentage of Australians believing him. The implicit message was," We do not want this type  here."  Something he wanted us to believe was that they were capable of actions somewhat less than human.  You may also remember he refused to retract, even though advised the information was doubtful.

It is popular to now decide that the ends justifies the means, but will you not at least agree that had he acted in a bipartisan way the problem would not have arisen.

You give Howard undue credit for not acting in a political manner, as Abbott and Morrison have ever since.

y question is "where will these nannies come from".  Will they be those already employed by child care centres, or will they be imported on 457 visas.

Looking after a three year old for just one day, believe me is quite a job.  These people will have to be trained, and certified,otherwise, as sure as eggs, the will be complaints of abuse.

It seems to me that unless the scheme is means tested that it will be taken up, in the main, by those wealthy enough to currently have nannies, and turn into another rort.I guess this puts to rest any residual warm and comfortable feeling one used to get when dealing with the Commonwealth Bank. I have had that fuzzy feeling ever since I used to take my CB deposit book to school and deposit my sixpence.

Now the CB is just another institution, protected by successive governments, that has turned to ripping off its customers.

Abbott is in a dilemma. This needs a Royal Commission or some similar inquiry to ensure justice for its defrauded clients.

However it will only in the end cause embarrassment to to the top end of town and not to the Labor Party, so it is unlikely to happen.

Abbott was against the RC into institutional child abuse in the first instance, and only supported it when it became a fait accompli.  You can always guess when and if he will have a RC, and you judge that by his personal interests.I guess this puts to rest any residual warm and comfortable feeling one used to get when dealing with the Commonwealth Bank. I have had that fuzzy feeling ever since I used to take my CB deposit book to school and deposit my sixpence.

Now the CB is just another institution, protected by successive governments, that has turned to ripping off its customers.

Abbott is in a dilemma. This needs a Royal Commission or some similar inquiry to ensure justice for its defrauded clients.

However it will only in the end cause embarrassment to to the top end of town and not to the Labor Party, so it is unlikely to happen.

Abbott was against the RC into institutional child abuse in the first instance, and only supported it when it became a fait accompli.  You can always guess when and if he will have a RC, and you judge that by his personal interests.Peter. I dare say the Government has done its sums, aided of course by the Treasury, and has determined that to assist women to get into the workforce, and thereby pay tax, is better than not have them work at all. Subsidised Childcare allows them to do this.

One can see the reasoning behind that, but compare it to Abbott's great thought bubble, his PPL scheme. The reasoning behind that doozie is baffling, don't you agree?Well, Damage has a friend. Bit hard to find aren't they Zing, only after about seven months in government.  Campbell Newman is looking around for some too. 

For a Government that has spent so much time in trying to convince the population that Labor left the country in a" MESS", 
(how many time have you heard that expression lately) they have not done too good a job at convincing anyone that they have the financial wiz kinds of the century.

Abbott repeatedly stated that "The adults are now in charge"  It has come to pass that the "Adults" have a propensity to treat the public as children.George: I suppose that even you, in the name of equality, and the idea that no one should get something for nothing would agree that a retrospective fee should be put on all of those that received a free university education. this of course would include many of our every day politicians.

Both rusty and yourself can make some reasonable claims about the problems in our economy and there the fault is.

However I do not agree that people of this country universally want to be in a position they keep the last penny they earn, and be damned to the rest.

I believe that those with the education and capacity to lead a comfortable life are thankful for being given the opportunity to do so, by the country itself, and feel more comfortable if there are not people, through no fault of their own, on the bread line.

What is generally overlooked in the current conversation, is that many receiving government assistance at this time have worked long and productive tax paying lives. Some through times when John Howard was Treasurer, and tax rates were much higher than they are now, and there was no superannuation scheme.

There is some evidence that the capitalist system does encourage greed.  Look at Woolworths at this very moment. They think nothing of introducing practices that in effect would have the result of decreasing the living standards of others. Now it is pharmacists to add to the farmers, not to mention the local greengrocer.

Much of your argument is too simplistic.


Damage: Can you put a bit of meat on the bones of that statement.  I do not know whether it can carry much weight now. Less than a year out of government  Labor is making a resurgence Australia wide.chipinga:  Abbott is the problem. Your rather erratic statement "I am sure Abbott would come on board" is so far from his actions over the last six years, it is laughable.

The farcical nature of Australian politics is due in no small way to Abbott's personality and negativity, which was so lauded by the Murdoch press and its minions. It seems that any actions or promises were in order to achieve his aims, a conservative government.

The public have taken till now to realise that he will say and do anything to achieve these ends, but no one really knows what they are because his policies are so inconsistent.

It seems inconceivable, that because Abbott has been apparently convinced, possibly by his religious mentors, that climate change is "All crap" that he will be quite happy to sit back and nothing.

Australians generally are not like that. Most would accept that as a nation we should pull our weight. Instead we are beholden to industrial interests of the same magnitude as the mining industry which history will show has ripped off our natural resources.

Abbott, and his government will, down the track become but a bad dreamgbe: What a lot of tripe. News Corp got into Rudd mercilessly, to the point that he was overthrown. The ABC did their share. Get with the facts.

With correspondents with as much of a facts of the facts as you have, why should our politicians be any better?Dr. Nitsche must be shaking his head when he hears this debate.

We currently have a government that went along with the bombing of Baghdad, and the collateral damage of hundreds of thousands, and yet they will pursue a man who wants to help terminally ill people in constant pain achieve a dignified and peaceful death.

Perhaps ABBOTT and people that think like him should consider opening it up to those of us that do not share his religious convictions, and do not really consider that going to heaven or paradise is an option.Horrocks: Religion has stepped in and is doing its best to keep the population at manageable levels.  It was once Christians and Muslims working together, but now it seems for the present as least it is just Muslims against Muslims. Maybe this is not enough and we will have to adopt some of the measures you suggest.  But alas in that case I will be gone.greg: As the characters on "Yes minister" would say, you have made a brave hopeful prediction".

When will this "Rapidity" actually commence?  Also if you can spare the time from making hopeful predictions could you explain how.The author spends most of her time trying to determine the Greens motivation in rejecting the increase in fuel excise.  Most unsuccessfully I suggest. But does it really matter?

She is right in her final assessment of this budget. It is really amazing that well paid, supposedly politicians, sitting in opposition for six years have no idea of what is acceptable to the Australian public.

Why is this so? Could it be that for six years they were so intent on gaining government, sometimes to the detriment of the country that they could not see the wood for the trees.

Any back yard accountant, with the help of Treasury surely could have come up with something more acceptable and at the same time make inroads into the deficit.

The Libs over egged the pudding, underestimated the intelligence of the public, and still does so by denying any promises were broken. To make that latter more ridiculous they still talk about mandates. They have not the intelligence to realise that the PPL scheme, at this time at least is an indulgence. Nor have they really explained how it will return more than $20 bil over 4 years in increased productivity.  Most women would probably go back to work anyway. Now he his hammering "Workplace entitlement", and "The public service has it."  None of there reasons are very convincing. Annual leave does not last for six months, and in the public service it is part of workplace contracts, paid by the employer, albeit the government.

Smart Alec response Evan: "They probably thought etc". Well you see they were wrong. They wanted reasonable fair and attainable responses. Check the polls. These are the same polls that gave you so much comfort a few months back.

Wayne Swan  is history after six budgets, Hockey is likely to be history after one.

By your comments it appears that you are out on a limb, clinging on with not even all of the coalition, trying to defend the indefensible.Evan: Both sides can make an argument. However I think that a more efficient public transport system would win out.

You could say "Better roads, more cars, more parking places required to go with the extra emissions"Evan: Most people use their cars to go to work on a daily basis so that they can pay taxes into the Federal Government coffers.  It is absolutely stupid to say that that s reasonably small increase at any one time will result in a decrease in fuel useage.  There is no alternative in many cases that to use your car.  Public transport availability may make a difference.

Abbott is using the proposed increase solely to increase revenue ( a change of mind). Your use of the term" co2 dragon" tells the readers exactly where you stand.  Isn't it getting lonely out there?Evan. The proposed increase in the fuel excise is peanuts compared to the middles class tax cuts dished out by Howard and still in the system and accountable for a very big part of the deficit.

Before you carry on about how much the upper bracket pays now, let me assure you that in my long period of paying taxes, much under a Howard Treasury, I was paying a much higher rate of my income in tax than on offer today. Howard's change of heart and profligacy was purely a matter of staying in government.

The only trouble that Labor may save the Coalition from itself.If  the boat people situation ceases to be an issue down the track, all the coalition can talk about is how good they were. People soon get tired of that.

If Labor saves the Coalition from itself in this budget, Hockey may be secretly thankful, and change his stance, and introduce something more fair and equitable next year. All Labor will be able to do is say how bad they were.

It will be interesting to see how far Abbott and Hockey backtrack, and how far they can deviate from their political backers' wishes. I do not think they will be able to help themselves.

Labor on the other hand has only to introduce savings measures,like the abolition of the PPL, real anomalies in the welfare system, that do not hurt too much, some fuel subsidies, and tax rorts.

Interesting times ahead!JillC: Your spiel is not worth wasting too much time on, expect to say that I have learned on the drum that if you want to be taken seriously anything you write must have some small connection with reality.Nova: Hockey's negotiating skills are a bit on the nose too. We are seeing how he reacts under pressure. He is mortified that his grand ideas of making the less well off pay for the incompetency, and in Howard's case profligacy of previous governments.

One would have thought that accusing the Greens of hypocrisy, and Labor of never having any principles, on a almost daily basis may not win the Senate over.  One now suspects that his mortification may have morphed into realisation that it would be better if the budget fails. He may then live to fight another day.

With his diplomatic skills, his best hope now seems to be an overseas posting as a diplomat some where or the other.  Liberals always seem to be able to find some reward for their failed so called leaders.Dr.Goh:  We have heard all of that before. You laud the Liberals for fixing something they started.

Can I please have an honest answer from you.  Do you deny that John Howard was responsible for making  this issue a partisan one by his actions in prematurely declaring that boat people were throwing their children into the water,not retracting it, and following up with a hate filled speech, "We will decide who comes to this country and the circumstances in which they come"

Do you deny that he did this to assist him in retaining government.

Do you deny that if he had appealed to Labor in a bipartisan manner for solutions that the issue would have been solved years ago.

Of course you deny all of that, otherwise your posts would be more realistic.Jess: It is some time that I have heard the truth of the issue "Howard made it into a horrifying political issue"  Liberal supporters have conveniently forgotten "Children overboard" and "We will decide etc".

Honesty in the debate has been lost, as it always suffers when it comes to political expediency.  Had Howard sought political bipartisanship at the time billions would have been saved, deaths prevented, but it was more important for him to retain government.  He cunningly knew that the Australian people could be easily roused to support any moves to protect our borders against the Muslim hordes who would drown their children to get into and take over Australia.

Labor should have been more prudent when it overturned Howard's hate filled policies, as circumstances worked against them.  It it surprising that now we hear that Julie Bishop has approached Malaysia, and other near Asian countries for assistance in forming a common bond when it comes to intelligence against radicalism. Is this the same Malaysia that was too backward and draconian to even entertain sending intercepted boat people there?  Hockey talks about hypocrisy!

I agree that the boat trade should be stopped, but it is abhorrent that the Australian Government should be determined on any policy relating to it.




yank: You forgot the biggest rort of all , and that is his travelling allowance. Apart from his frequent visits to remote communities, pollie pedals, weddings, his latest confession is having to organise a meeting in retrospect to fit in with a personal engagement.

But never mind a saviour has appeared dressed up as terrorism, as you mentioned.

BTW his best friend presenter Paul Murray on Sky News does his best on a nightly basis to let us know how lucky we are to have Tony.Actually BC you can rest easy. The slow learning public have just discovered that there is not really an economic crisis, only a projected one yonks down the track if is done about it now. 

The Tone has changed (pun) and the words have changed to that everyone can be screwed to make this Government look good.

In fact the Employment Minister's job is so easy, what with low wages and all, he amuses us by introducing other issues that concern him, "Abortions could cause cancer." Nothing to do with his religion of course, after all the study was very recent, the 1950's or something.  Must have learned from the PM who has never really recovered from his defeat as health Minister on this issue.

John1. It is not Shorten that has convinced, it is members of the Government, and their followers when being questioned on news programmes, suddenly smitten with a bout of the truth.

If you have not caught up with the actual truth here is a sample of their latest spin. " There may not be an immediate crisis, but if we go on the way we are, with the mess Labor left us years down the track we will be in trouble" There are of course variations, depending on the honesty of the politician being interviewed.

I might add this propaganda by the libs is a bit like the claim that renewable energy adds to the cost of electricity. Michael Kroeger,the most avid Liberal supporter in living memory also had a bout of the honests.  He belled the cat by declaring that the claim was not true, because he had just switched to another provider because its mix of renewable energy meant that his bills were cheaper. Sort that one out.Sir Trent: I know where all of your resource money went. Had a trip from Perth to Kalgoorlie recently. All of the small towns on the way have streets paved with gold. Well Northam paved with pavers, and the footpaths in the likes of Southern Cross, and others paved with pavers. Not that I think the money should not be evenly spread, but it was a high price to pay for a vote.

Is that Royal Commission material?
Actually I did, and I agree that they do not seem to have received the same largess as those I mentioned.  However my comments were directed at the fact that the Government bought a vote. Not that I have any particular objection with the concept, of returning some iron ore money to regional areas but those methods do not always get the best results.micka: What you say makes sense, however, and here comes the however, exactly what work practices are you talking about that makes it so stultifying to run a business.

Perhaps the public should be made aware of these regressive work practices so they can get on side. Otherwise you are left with a gun without a bullet.Snake: I do not follow you. "It is hard imagining Abbott bringing on this Royal Commission isn't it?"  Abbott objected to the concept of a Royal Commission when it was first mooted by Julia Gillard. He said he did not agree with it because it may turn into a witch hunt against the Catholic Church.  In other words if it had been up to Abbott there would be no Royal Commission and the Catholic Church would be going on their merry way covering up.

He is very quiet on the issue now and we do not hear as much about him being a good Catholic boy as we used to.  The rest of his front bench do not see the value in advertising the fact either.Actually they should pay tax like any other business. We would have no budget worries, and our children may be safer if they were scrutinised more.Roger: Perhaps because for some the rape of innocent children by people that have their complete trust somehow does not compare with politically motivated inquiries into unions.

Besides your statement is not correct the other RC's are getting plenty of media coverage.What about Rotary and the like. Scouts, all childrens' sporting clubs. Police Boys Clubs. put your mind to it and you will find many more. The kids do not get brain washed either.If you were a Lawyer you would want some proof. You have disregarded all logic either because you were got at as a child, or like most religious people want a crutch to get through the rigours of life.

What is it about seeing men frocked in all sorts of funny garb waving tins of smoke that can inspire anyone to believe that the is some superior being somewhere. If there was he certainly is impotent because he cannot even stop those selling his message from the basest of crimes against children.Yes Sir Robert.  And religious people wonder why the reference to fairy tales.

It is one thing to accept that about 2000 years ago there was a prophet called Jesus who showed the basic people of those days a better way to live their lives, but the jump to claiming that he was the son of a God is a bit much.  To even say, as I was told over and over at Sunday school in the best traditional brainwashing method that he died on a cross for my sins is also a bit much.sleepykarly: I have never read either the old or new testament, and unless this God of yours actually appears before me, and makes the suggestion, I never will.

You will immediately state that I am in no to position to pass judgement as the the existence of God or not.

However I would reply that I am not interested in believing in a superior being that has never been seen, is impotent, that is used by organisations like the Catholic Church to control and manipulate those that do believe in him, and is in fact to my mind a myth.

The fact that probably the majority of people that attend churches of various denominations are good and decent citizens does not induce me to give away all sense of reality and science to join them.  I do not have to belong to a church to be as decent as them, or in fact more so, because I make no distinctions.frangipani: What you say may, or may not be correct. However rob has pointed out the incorrect assertions of the author, and at least that should be recognised.

As far as I am concerned eliminating religion may only eliminate some of the conflicts, but even that is a start.

The main thing though is that politicians would no longer be deluded into doing things like  invading Iraq and bombing bagdad, and kidding themselves that they are "Doings God's will".

I am currently listening to Julie Bishop, our Foreign minister voicing her outrage about a religion that allows a small child to become complicit in barbaric acts. She is artfully doing what politicians do appealing to the population to support legislation aimed at another religion, perhaps rightfully so in the circumstances, but in realistic circumstances the perpetrators are simply murderous criminals.

On the home front there would not be hundreds of children putting themselves in the way of pedifiles, and subsequently spending the rest of their lives shattered, and fighting cover ups and some sort of recognition of the fact that they have been brutalised by my members of the church they were indoctrinated in before their mature thinking was allowed to take over.

Eliminating centuries old beliefs, of which there has never been any proof, would enable the populations of the world, hopefully to live in peace with one another. However of course man being man they would find something else to fight about.AJS. "The big spend $42 bil came later."  Well there is no global financial crisis now yet this present government can spend more than half of of the amount Berg is choking on his Wheeties over for no conceivable good whatsoever. It is being passed of as a productivity move, but it is intended to have no purpose other than to lift Abbott's standing with the women at the ironing board, digesting the fact that he said there would a PPL scheme over his dead body.  You really need to revise your thinking.

Then, perhaps you may be able to explain how productivity will lift above the cost of implementation after four years. No I suppose not!Waterloo: The sad news  is that the party you so fervently follow does not know how to govern. Therefore what is the best option. It may be best for you to put your prejudices aside, and let a party that has the experience to at least enunciate some policies even if they do not meet your right wing approval.

After 12 months of a Liberal government the deficit is greater than when they started.Brian: You are only repeating the latest spin thought up by this inept Government.  You did not hear any,non urgent message when the budget was brought down. Then the country was in a "Mess" and needed urgent repair.

You do not have not repeat their tripe here, we get it every day now from Hockey, Cormann and Co.TOJ.  I would not do what this inept government is doing. Labor knows that there is some housekeeping needed. After all it successfully addressed the GFC, and it knows the state of Australia's finances as well as the LNP.

I would not have build up the deficit as soon as it came into office just to say "Look how bad it is"

I would have moved to an ETS, but instead the current financial wizards rescinded the mining tax at a cost to revenue, and are going to spend more on fruitless direct action scheme.

I would accept the obvious fact that the current PPL scheme, the first ever and one implemented over Tony Abbott's "Dead body", was adequate, and save a cool $25 bil over 4 years there.

I would off set any prudent changes to social security measures with an element of fairness which this government has not done.

I would curtail, as least to some degree the generous concessions to wealthy superannuants.

It would not have promised not to do some things, and then immediately do them. Surely that is no way to win people over.

My budget would have been passed by now because it would address the problems and not become a problem within it'self.

I would then be able to get on running the country, and attending to things like unemployment.



Abbott is not likely to talk turkey with Labor. He spent six years rubbishing it. Besides that idea is to sensible for him to contemplate.

It appears that his last hope is the frontal assault now being undertaken by News Corp through its main publications, The Australian, and the Daily Telegraph.  Add to this Sky News which has seemed to succomb to Murdoch pressure of late by stacking all of its news events with Australian journalists, who do their best for Abbott.  

Add to this Paul Kelly and his book which got a half hour sales pitch on Sunday morning.  Strange how these journalistic authors think they know everything, when like Kelly they spend so much times making incorrect predictions.

The stupidity of this government is no more evidenced than by Christopher Pyne's threat to  reduce research funding if budget measures are not passed.  We have politicians that think Australia would go for reduced research funding, and yet keep the PPL scheme which is friendless.

The author's comments would be viable if the measures  in dispute had and credibility at all. But then if they had any credibility, they would be passed by now.Septic:  You must be new to this game!  The previous Government's legislation was progressive, and could not be rejected by the opposition because it had the support of the people.  Even the LCP opposition, at one time supported some sort of a price on carbon.

This current legislation is all about fixing a "Mess" that is there one day and not the next, and the methods used to do so protect those that can really afford it, at the expense of those that would struggle.

Do you go for the ploy of "Why should blue collar workers pay for the education of those that do not go to university.?"

I would have though that everyone at one stage in their life feels better about the options presented to them under the present system than one envisaged by Pyne.  They keep on stating that University educated people earn more money, so I suppose that also means, they pay more tax.

It is time this Government stopped treating the public as non thinking idiots.It really depend on what type of economics you follow. Even the richest woman in the world had to borrow billions to establish her Roy Hill project. You probably borrowed to buy your house.

There is certainly a limit to borrowings, Labor knows this, but the contentious issue is what is that limit?  One could rightly say that Howard and Costello are as guilty as anyone for earning the reputation of being the nation's most profligate government ever.

You will see that Australia's "Mess" will be addressed as time goes by, either by this government getting more prudent legislation through, or by a change back to labor.

Doom and Gloom is not a best seller.Gee Forrest, You and Waterloo are getting desperate. Nothing to offer now but hopeful predictions against the flow.

How things have changed, and it is all through the mob you thought would be this nations saviour. Labor and its supporters have had not to do anything but watch incompetent minister after incompetent minister, making blustering outlandish statements to watch their stocks dismally flop.

The cannot even convince those they once termed as inconsequential rabble to agree with them.AE: They will need a lot more than a couple of dollars a week from rusted on Coalition supporters.

Had Murdoch realised when he decided to so fiercely back the LCP over the past six years, that he would lose 50% of of his readers, he may have decided to stick to accurate bipartisan reporting. Instead he promoted presenters like Paul murray, and Chris Kenny, bought Graham Richardson and others to join the already slanted journalists on his papers.

There may be some hope for him if he has a new edict. "Forget what I told you before, and report honestly, and keep slanted opinions to yourself, we will try and get our credibiblity back"You did not have to AE. Anyone who relentlessly slams the ABC and lauds News Corp and only vote for one party.Only going by what you are saying AE.  You started this conversation by stating, more or less that it is The Australian for you, and the ABC is not up to,scratch.

Well this afternoon on PM Agenda the ex CEO of News Corp in Australia told how he was sacked by Murdoch, in the main because he launched a book by Chris Bowen   on the eve of the election. He was told in language that could not be misinterpreted that this was not behaviour consistent with Murdoch's aim to see a LNP government elected.

Now deniers have stated for years that the Murdoch was not slanted towards the coalition, and no doubt they will still somehow cling to that delusion.

Media barons deciding who runs this country is not something I concur with.You are right Yank: Opinion is all we get from most Sky News presenters these days. Mine is as relevant as theirs, or may be more so because I do read opposing opinions.

Chris Kenny and Paul Murray are the worst. It appears that the only guest commentary they can get is from The Australian paid journalists, at an average of about three to one.

I will admit though, the antics of this Government, its leader and front bench are making it more and more difficult for them to sound even remotely credible.

frangipani: I have read your last few contributions and cannot agree with your premise.  Your argument is that all things will even out in the end, so it is ok if particular news outlets are partisan.

That is not necessarily the case. The loudest and strongest voice with the most outlets, and resources is sure to eventually get the upper hand.

There is evidence of that by the downfall of the last labor government once News Corp had it in its sights.  No one can now credibly deny that Murdoch wanted to install a LNP Government. The question is why. News Corp is a business, and the obvious answer is because it suited their business interests, not Australian interests.

News Corp also won the argument about climate change, which seems strange when the rest of the world seems to be going the other way.

How many journalists from News Corp will do other than endorse Abbott's fear tactics he is presently employing. David Leyonhjelm, a cross bench with Liberal principles believes that to reverse the  onus of proof in our society will prove that the terrorists have won that particular argument. He will find no support from News Corp.

News Corp has a strong influence over Sky News which is losing any pretext of being balanced by resorting , in the main to commentary by Journalists from The Australian Newspaper.

I think it would be fair to say that elections are won by the votes of people that do not have a deep interest in politics. They are influenced by the latest sensational announcement  emanating from the MSM. That is why pictures of heathen boat people throwing their children into the water, followed up by a nationalist speech, not contested by the news media, will win their vote.unhappy: You can hardly blame the ABC for the travails of the current inept government.  For one the ABC has a charter, being funded by the taxpayer as we are always reminded,to be objective balanced, and even in its reporting.

Secondly Liberal Governments always complain when honest reporting invariably reflects on their competency, and they send for reinforcements like Janet Albrechtsen to do something about it.

Thirdly opinions like yours about the ABC are restricted to really  committed Liberal supporters that can bode no support of opinion that is not their own. The National Party is a friend of the ABC, so the Libs are reduced to tinkering around the edges, and reducing funding to bring it to heel.

"Funded by taking money from taxpayers"  That is like criticizing the  Defence Dept by saying it is funded by taking money from taxpayers. Or our state police forces. Or any other government funded instrumentality.

Graham: You are clutching at straws. There was a police investigation into the allegations against Shorten. It is unlikely that anyone now can say much, other than what you have done, engage in slurs.

As for the punching allegation, there was a credible witness, but of course the incident did not warrant any kink of official investigation.

There has been plenty of evidence over the years that would lead observers to believe that there might be a smidgen of reality into what was alleged about Abbott. However there has not been too much around to lead to the conclusion that Shorten is, or was a sexual predator.Ben: I am qualified to judge. I am old enough, have observed Prime Ministers since Menzies, even before in my youth,and my previous profession required nous and common sense, as well as an understanding of the community.  Many people I am sure meet this standard. Probably even you.

I am entitled to judge Abbott, and indeed his front bench, because the things they do affect me.

I do not think he has a grasp of of the realities of governing Australia.  I do not think that three years in a Seminary, and the most of the rest of his life in politics has readied him for the job he now occupies.

Unfortunately his six years in opposition has even lowered the expectations of those that support him.It is time that major decisions like sending our troops to war ware taken out of the hands of one man.

That particular system has failed time and again. Too often is it used to gain political support. There should be a war cabinet, and it should include some members of the major opposition.china: Abbott, I am sure pictures himself as Richard the Lionheart. He will fight with religious zeal for all Australians that believe like him.

This latest wave of patriotism may win him some votes for those just as deluded, but we must be careful that we do not overcook the egg, again.aka: You hear nothing from Abbott about the RC into child sex abuse because when it was first recommended by a Labor Government he was against it because he said it would be used as an instrument against the Catholic church.

He had plenty of reason for concern on that issue, but as you say will steer as far away from comment as possible. And of course the MSM never ask himAlpo: Yes and Yes;  You are correct o ask "Who is Abbott?" Nobody knows.

As for Palmer, although he is as hard to read as tea leaves, he is doing Australia a favour by preventing Abbott from having free reign to succeed in his illogical budget.

Whilst Glen Stevens says the budget is not draconian, and Cormann now decides there is no urgency no one seems to be addressing the alternatives. The superannuation concessions to the already well off should be the first to go. You could then talk about fairness, and some of the other initiatives may fall into place.

The other major stumbling block his outrageous PPL scheme, his signature policy, is so far off the planet that even the rest of the slow learners on his team are not in accord with him.  Can we afford to spend $20 bil over four years just to leave him a legacy.

News programmes on a daily basis remind us what an incompetent lot we have running this country. Politics in Australia is becoming a farce. Palmer is just reinforcing the trend.

Notice that Abbott is talking tough on the world stage in the hope that overseas issues will be his saviour.Joe: You accuse others, and the media of being dishonest in their assessment of the cost of the PPL scheme.  Your claims immediately classify you as one who is driven by the ideology of the liberal party, without accord to the facts.

The fact is that big business does not pay for the full amount of the PPL scheme that is Abbott's signature policy. The budget bottom line IS affected. Abbott also said when he introduces it that only initially would it be paid for by big business, and that when the government (taxpayer) was able it would do so.

The rest of your argument does not hold water, and is akin to saying that big business should also provide superannuation benefits similar to that received by politicians, to the rest of the nation.

Anyway, why flog a dead horse, it will not get through. This argument is really about the values of the government we now have in [place.Albo: I know your tongue is well and truly placed within your cheek, and you are expecting readers to chortle at your claim.

I know you do not have to be reminded how well Abbott went with the two independents who Gillard easily won over. Even giving everything but his ar...s did not do the trick.

Abbott and Bishop ruined the relationship with indonesia by their gung ho comments after a diplomatic incident.  Are you trying to suggest that Labor did something that Liberals would not have done. You are being disingenuous, and most readers would know it.  You are also suggestion free trade agreements can be negotiated almost overnight. Again disingenuous.

What did the Senate have to do with any of the other things you mentioned, except scrapping the carbon tax. 

In effect all this government has done is scrap the carbon tax, and that in itself is an abomination.

You may eat your words when his failure to pass his "Signature" policy, his baby, the thing he will be remembered by, the unfair pandering to the already wealthy, his PPL scheme.  Now there is a test of negotiating skills for you!John: So you said Except, I said BUT, and that makes me dishonest???

So why should two respected politicians hate the nationals, and therefore the Coalition? Perhaps they had principles!

And you can speak for Indonesia now can you?

Your selective memory is amusing. Did not your hero try to bribe Wilkie, unsuccessfully with a billion dollars for a hospital in Wilkie's electorate. Is offering a bribe more in line with Liberal ideology. From the going ons in ICAC it seems so.clete: Falling out with the CLP in Queensland seems to be the going thing.

Heard Alan Jones frothing at the mouth last night on Richo and Jones accusing Newman of things that would make China think they had gotten off lightly.

What is it with the libs in this country. Alan Jones who is the most rusted on liberal in the nation has so vehemently changed tack that Richo was lost for words. 

Lets see now. First there was Malcolm Fraser. Peter Costello pops up. Clive Palmer, deserted the ship.  John Hewson finds it difficult to endorse Liberal policies. And now shock jock Alan Jones who has made a living rubbishing everything Labor, discrediting a liberal Government. ICAC in on the act.

Add to all of that the Australian public, which is what really counts.

Here endeth the facts of the situation.It helps APM because he is currently stopping Abbott from implementing a grossly unfair and regressive budget.  Next question!APM. I know you would like to blame someone else of the misfortunes of this sad government, but please do not blame me, or the labor party.

Palmer, do not forget, up until recently has been a life long member if the liberal party. The fact that he, like many other once Liberals has seen the light, is their problem, not mine or Labors.

As far as I am concerned, you can have him back, as Abbott and particularly Hockey are trying to bring that about. However in the mean time if he, like the most of the Australian public can recognise a dog of a budget, like I said is your problem.

You should think a little about your last couple of lines, and not say such stupid things, just because they roll off your tongue.Pete: Some would say that your comment is a bit racist. Penny Wong is Australian. I see where you still put people in their boxes by the shape of their faces.Pete: So in your greater thinking, and obvious superior intellect, you consider that Penny Wong, an Australian curries favour with Clive Palmer for not making a fool of herself, as he did, in not railing on QandA about his comments, because she is of Chinese origin. BTW I have not heard Penny Wong talk about her experiences of racism, and I somehow doubt that you have either.

Poor Penny Wong, she is gay and of Chinese origin. Are there any other causes she should vociferously take on to stop idiotic  condemnation of her existence.You are not presuming to say why she stayed silent, just condemning her for doing so. She was not the only one not to comment on Palmer's Jones like outburst. Are they as culpable as she is, or is it really because she is a Labor senator?

I thought Barnaby Joyce was quite muted. Then he is of the party that is sucking up to Clive at the moment.chipinga: Exactly what has Bishop done that any half competent Foreign Minister would not have done. The only difference is that Bishop decided that "Tough talk" would impress the audience at home, but reality tells us that it has not achieved much.

By comparison Tanya Plibersek seemed, in an interview on Am Agenda on Sunday morning far more in touch with the realities of world issues.  This was despite with the main interviewer, Paul Kelly, with his superior smirk, trying his best to catch her out.

Faithful as you are chipinga, you must admit that the current Liberal front bench falls a bit short of what we were led to expect.

Menzies with "Reds under the bed"  Howard with "Children overboard", and "Weapons of mass destruction",Abbott with "Sovereign borders, and home grown terrorists" may be served short term by fear tactics, but as Bill Clinton said, "It is the economy stupid"Pete: If you paid 80k in income tax last year you are not exactly on the bones of your bum.

The society in which you live made it possible for you to either educate yourself, or be lucky enough to fall into a position to take advantage of opportunities to earn that sort of remuneration.

The point is that you did not gain such a position solely on your own efforts because it is impossible for a man on a desert island to gain wealth unless he finds rich minerals, and then he cannot spend it.

I dare say that there were times in your life that you did depend on welfare, if only to educate yourself.

I was unfortunate enough to be at my highest earning capacity when Howard was Treasurer. The rate of income tax was much higher than it is now.

If the government you obviously support realised an acceptable return from all of its mineral wealth and from multi nationals it would not have to ask pensioners to chip in at this stage of their lives, after having paid taxes for 40 years or more.

You cannot defend this current budget without mentioning the PPL scheme or undue concessions to the wealthy for superannuation.pete: I am not sure that your perception is that accurate.

Had the Government scrapped its ridiculous paid parental leave scheme, and curtailed to some degree, if not completely,the high end of town superannuation concessions, I am sure the protests against the budget would be more muted.

The "Unfairness" element could have been counter balanced. After all doing away with high end of town welfare is not taxing them further.  It is actually taking them off the public purse.

I understand that the two measures I, and many others advocate would improve the bottom line more than what the misguided budget would

I personally am not suggesting taxing the rich more, even though they are getting it better than when Howard was Treasurer.  However there does seem to be an inequality between the profits of big business, the mining industry, and the banks, which surely is an indication of the wealth of this country, and the sudden need by this government to hit the less well off.Dan: I too think we are getting above ourselves. Not that I think that being the best country in the world we should have no voice at all. Our opinions should be commensurate with our standing as a middle power, not one hanging on America's coat tails.

To give you an example of how well known we are in America; I have a grandson attending an American University. He was conversing with a female student.  Conversation... " Where do you come from?."  Answer "Australia".  Retort... "Gee you speak good English".

It is likely that we are better known world wide for our draconian "Boarder Protection" policies, and our decision to send boat refugees to Cambodia, then we are for any other reason.Snufkin: Is that the same troy Bramston now on News Ltd Payroll?

I thought John Faulkner was in the Senate.

Not a good idea to talk about Union corruption at this time, whilst ICAC is still in session otherwise people will align your credibility with that of other News Ltd journalists.

As for the Labor response to the GFC, yours and your fellow Liberals'criticisms are with the knowlede of hindsight.  If your Government cannot do something simple like bring down a budget supported by the people, how would you have done handling the worst world crisis since the great depression?Waterloo: If you said that six months ago, you have surely been proven wrong. But like a good parent, you refuse to believe facts about a favourite child.

Unfortunately Bishop herself must have read your writings, and  taken them as gospel.

Others that expect some sort of competency from their Minister for Foreign Affairs wonder why she said about Indonesia, " we do not ask their permission, only their understanding" regarding the LNP turn back the boats policy. Her initial handling of the spying issues was akin to a bull in a china shop, and all this time later, hopefully some sort of understanding may be signed.

The two aircraft disasters are not about Julie Bishop.  She has a propensity to make statements that are unreal in the circumstances. The Dutch PM gave her an example on diplomacy.

Offending Russia is good, perhaps for the Bishop image, but not so good for Australian farmers.

And you say "Bishop, just brilliant".

You say "Spite of the left". Cast your mind back a few years when a really competent woman politician was the subject of Bishop's spite.

One can understand your personal frustrations about an incompetent Government you thought, and indeed told us ad nauseum was going to be our saviour. But do not dent your credibility any further by letting your frustrations get the upper hand.Waterloo: "Just brilliant, articulate and factual". Are you referring to my blog? Thank you.

The Minister for Foreign Affairs is responsible for all of our missions overseas, and our ambassadors.  They are expected to be diplomatic. I suppose that is because history tells us that diplomacy achieves more than bluster. Their boss should set the example.

It is doubtful that we can afford too many more examples of Bishop's diplomacy. The going price seems to be $400 mil per gaffe.

A bit like Abbott's attempt at appeasement to women voters, cost to the taxpayer $5 bil annually.The biggest political crime Abbott committed whilst he was in opposition was to oppose Labor's Malaysian solution.  He said it was on humanitarian grounds, but now wants to send refugees to Cambodia.

The truth is that in opposition he did not want a solution. He and his billboard were happy to see boat arrivals, no matter what the cost in lives or money.  He has actually cost Australia billions in defeating an obvious solution for political purposes. But what the hell, he can now get that from the sick, unemployed and pensioners.Strange Marko, how do they fake those pictures of great slabs of glaciers and ice sheets falling into the water.  

Those images alone have convinced many of my dumb friends that the globe must be getting warmer for this to happen. They will be pleased to receive your assurance that his is not the case.

Lets us burn all of the coal we can produce, and sell it around the world until we have none left. 

China will be pleased to know that all of that smog is healthy for its citizens, or perhaps they can use it in lieu of birth control.Waterloo: Not everyone I have net has rejoiced at the management of Westpac under Gail Kelly. No doubt it may have been the same, no matter who was CEO.

After the GFC, something Liberal supporters would have us believe was of no account. Westpac, and no doubt other banks shore up their one bottom line at the expense of their customers.

It may have been only normal banking business, but a family member of mine has two fairly expensive business properties bought at the height of the boom.  After the GFC, Westpac increased the equity to debt ratio, and forced him to make thousands per month in additional payments.

This was the treatment metered out to someone, employing others, in the marketplace,abiding by all free enterprise rules, only to become a victim of greedy banks.

Realiat. Brave attempt: If only you believed it yourself! How do you argue against a supporter of the Liberal Party at last reporting it as it is?  Time you and other Coalition adherents recognised the facts, and got your house in order before you see yourselves serving another term in the wilderness.

Abbott not only placed himself in a position where he had to get some agreement from Putin to satisfy Australia's disquiet over the handling of the cause and afrermath of MH17, he gambled his reputation on it.  The end result showed his lack of judgement for this tough talking in the first place. He achieved nothing but a photo of himself and Putin cuddling Koalas.

Stop blaming the ABC for his stupid antics, and while you are about it stop putting yourself above the collective comment of the world's leading nations' leaders.gordon: The last line of your post will no doubt be added to the other Abbott gaffes appearing on U Tube. The most disturbing of these of course is the occasion he is being interviewed and when asked a question stares into the camera with a demented look unable to answer for fully a minute.

The stresses of politics are not for everyone,and they are certainly not for Abbott.

It is time the LNP revisited their choice of leader, and selected someone who could have said more in his opening speech on the economic front at the G20 than complain about not getting a ridiculous budget passed, and rescinding a tax other nations probably agree with.ginny: You should nor ask questions, in the Abbott fashion, when the answers are so patently obvious. Allowing the wealthy to avoid normal tax by stashing their excess funds in in the otherwise credible superannuation scheme, for one.

Do not fall for the proposition that every person that could call themselves "Wealthy" is a supporter of this current government.SVJ:  Check Abbott's recorded gaffes on U Tube, then you will no doubt have second thoughts about his fitness to be as out Prime minister.  After you have viewed it, and added his "Shirtfront" comment ask yourself if any leader of any persuasion could have belittled the highest position in the land so much, albeit that he started when the was leader of the opposition.TOJ: It is a bit hard to follow your reasoning.  By your own standards, Abbott should not have even opened his mouth before the last election. Anyone else for that matter.

It should really be only after the promises have not been fulfilled, as is the case with most of Abbott's pre election guff that you should criticise.  Rescinding the previous government's legislation does not count.

Abbott was going to bring in an expensive, fancy PPL scheme. He has not.

Most of the rest of the world has abandoned membership of the Flat Earth Society, and it is time Australia did too.

China's and the US's undertaking is a sign that science is winning over  ancient traditional medieval belief in most advanced nations. We are becoming an embarrassment.ginny: Stick to it. Losing race though.  It is not only readers on the Drum that see Abbott for what he is. After all a man who could say "She should die of shame over her policies" after Alan Jones said "Her father died of shame" shortly after Gillard's fathers death is lacking somewhat in decent common sense.

It is impossible to put a rosy glow on Abbott's conduct of the G20.  His embarrassing tirade against the Senate for not passing his budget was but one example.I have read many comments on this difficult but important subject.  Currently I have good health, although sadly many of my contemporary s' have passed on.

I have not read one comment suggesting that euthanasia is against "God's will". Thankfully this this argument has not been raised, but such an issue does influence many of our politicians, including the Prime Minister.  We therefore are generally at the mercy of religious beliefs of people that are too small to see the will of the people.

AJS: Thank you for reading my blogs. I am flattered that a person with once the good sense of owning an AJS does so. Even though he has since lost his way.

Any you are right. I firmly believe that Politics and Education should be free of religion.

My comment was quite accurate. The Prime Minister does feel that his religious beliefs have a place in the running of this country, ie chaplains in schools, and his objection, initially, against the Royal Commission into institutionalised child sex abuse. That is not to mention his feeling awkward in the company of homosexuals. 

We know what his opinion on euthanasia will be, and his opinion is important, because he heads our government.

He uses expressions like "It is not God's way" so what chance has any sensible legislation have of getting up in a sensible discussion?

So John Abbott is not under investigation for fraud. At least that would have been a reason he is a failure as a Pm. An embarrassment too!

I sit behind my key pad waiting for his next gaffe.  Sometimes I have to wait two days! Then I realise he was on a plane travelling somewhere, and has not held a news conference.

Do not worry about the ABC. The nations biggest news outlets run by News Corp. got him elected and are still in his corner. Chris Kenny and Paul Murray are still making fools of themselves, but Rupert must wake up to himself soon, and then you will really have something to complain about.

Which Prime Minister said he would "Shirtfront" the leader of  powerful nation. Was it Barak Obama? No. Was it Tony Blair? No.  Was it Angela Merkel? No.  It was the Prime Minister of Australia.  Did he do it? No.

Abbott gets fair and accurate reporting from the ABC, more than Gillard got from News Corp, even though I am sure the ABC did mention Gillard"s ancient problem more than once. Of course in your honesty you did not make a false claim there did you?
Good for you APM. Come back with all guns blazing.  Interesting to read your take on what "Shirtfront" means.  Of course you may have been brought up in a seminary like  Abbott was, and thinks it means having a cup of tea.

Also interesting to see how easy it is to get you all riled up.  I suppose you have forgotten all of those years of Abbott in opposition.

So Labor supporters are left panderers to anything foreign.  Where did that come from?  Probably because your side of politics has a propensity of getting Australia into wars.  Mainly of course because that are not doing too well on the home front.Well John1 why didn't he do just that. He may have threatened to "Shirtfront Putin, you know you are".  What was the "You know you are"? have you got a British military explanation for that little add on?  The ABC did not ridicule him for that. They probably felt sorry for him.

When the showdown came he wimped out. It was all an unnecessary distracting bluster to impress the simple minded.

BTW it does not really matter much what the British army definition of "Shirtfront" is, it is really a matter of what Australians believe it is.

Abbott thinks he is on a roll. Now he is telling Putin to stop living the glory days of old Russia, and get with the real world.

I think that it will take someone that knows a little more about diplomacy for Australia to get justice for the tragic airline loss.  Bishop might do it.  She is unlikely to "Shirtfront" Putin.John: Do not keep at it. Read my other blog. I am sure, and most of the readers here would be to, that you have no idea how much attention for mishaps Rudd and other Labor leaders received from the ABC.  I can distinctly remember Cassidy getting stuck into Rudd.

Any way you can give up now, Abbott has broken his promise not to cut the ABC, so your job is done.  You can now get back to commenting as things really are.TOJ. Ok, you have won. The ABC is biased towards Labor, and Abbott has reduced its funding because of it.

BUT let us ask ourselves why.. Is it because Labor has the best set of policies that meets the needs of the average Australian, and the ABC is o nly reporting fact.

OR..is it because Liberal politicians lie between their teeth to get into parliament, and break promises when they get there.

Or... Is it because people like Peter Slipper are Tony Abbott's best friends one day justifying  references for re election, and wedding gifts, and his mortal enemy the next.

Or.. Perhaps you think the ABC reporters are all raving commos"

Or is it really that ABC reporters are given the freedom, unlike those of their counterparts in News Corp, to report as it actually is.

It amuses me to read stupid complaints of ABC bias with never an accompanying reason why the disgruntled author of such stupidity thinks it is so.

The ABC knows that the Coalition is afraid of fearless reporting, but does so anyway, knowing, like pensioners,
young people, and students, not to mention the armed services they will feel the affects of spite.John; So your whole argument revolves around whether Cassidy criticized Rudd for his comments about OPEC. If you can show he did not you have proved your point?

Now someone who wants to hide behind The Drum to make comments of bias about the ABC would do his research and admit that Cassidy was a vocal critic of Rudd during his Prime Ministery.

Try News Corp if you want Right wing fascist news presentation. ( I do not really think that News Corp is a Right wing fascist organisation, but as you can see I have sunk to your level.)Unfortunately we have such medieval thinkers in our Government that they will believe that this achievement is all fiction.

"How", they will ask themselves, "Can scientists that are so dumb, that they do not know that AWG global warming is "All crap", have knowledge to design, engineer, and complete such an unimaginable event"

Surely providing sound advice on AWG by comparison is child's play. Yet we deny it?SueB: Pretty pathetic effort on your part.  Why not just come out and say it. You will never believe in global warming not matter what evidence is produced, and no matter how many countries world wide take action to prevent its detrimental effects. 

So the  two most powerful men in the world get together, after nine months of meetings, and make joint announcements which if effect are saying that they do not share your scepticism, or custard's, and you are still not moved.  Are they doing it just to make fools of themselves?

It is because you have more scientific advisers then they have, or is it something as simple as what convinced Tony Abbott? George Pell told him that it simply was not in God's plans.

Actually it would not matter what Virgil spelled out would it?maus: Never mind you will soon be able to have your annual meeting of climate change sceptics in a telephone booth, which  soon will be as rare as yourself.Bob and Dove. Congratulations, I have never seen anyone ever before put their name (even though false) to a quote such as "Credible commentators like Alan Jones"

It must certainly take courage to risk such ridicule.neil: It is such border line technology that governments in Australia are getting concerned that roof panels are too successful.  That fact makes you someone that will say anything to get across your last century thinking.maus: What is so strange about China being the biggest in anything. It has over a billion people, which is probably more than the whole of Europe, including Russia.

Either Chinese are humans, or not.

The fact that China is recognising the problems with pollution must be a good thing. Unfortunately Abbott acolytes on the Drum, immediately go in for the kill, in case their hero loses a little skin.Bulldust:  You may possess some superior scientific knowledge that convinces you that global warming is "All crap" and superior intelligence about the internal machinations of the Chinese government, but you suffer a little when it comes to world reality.

For whatever reason the rest of the world is taking action on climate change, even though against your best advice.

What you are suggesting will make us about the only nation that knows better, but the rest of the deluded world are unlikely to appreciate our recalcitrant attitude, and smack our wrists with trade sanctions, which will include not buying our coal.

Head in the sand attitude probably will not be all that healthy for our future well being.  But what the hell, at least we were the smartest.So Craig how come that we have a Coalition, and its faithful followers that once believed in an ETS, and a current Minster for the Environment that people could believe, that has done such a complete back flip. Even Howard was for an ETS.

Did the two terms is opposition damage your psyche so much that you were able to sell your souls to Tony Abbott, and claim him a Messiah because he won government by opposing everything, including climate change which was "All crap".

Nothing is too embarrassing  or inconsistent for you. Prepared to spend billions on a "Direct action scheme" to appease what?

Now the two biggest emitters are doing something, and the world is moving, Abbott, with the support of his faithful, will have to crawl out of that commitment.

Bit like his" shirtfront of Putin, you bet you are".  How can you make any sense of anything this prime minister says.

And you still keep on defending him!FG; Howard was your real hero. You have to defend Abbott out of necessity It must be painful for you, but please try and be realistic, stupidity on his part,(again),is more than an irrelevancy.

This morning Tim Fisher,you remember him? Once deputy leader of the Coalition, was asked about Abbott's shirt fronting comment.

Fisher was less than impressed, indicating that it is more important to have constructive relations with Russia, for many reasons, than to make these "irrelevant" comments.

In truth, Abbott is making Australia a laughing stock, something we can do without.gbe: You really do not know how he got elected?  Where have you been over the past three or four years.

Well here is some information for you.

The Leader of the Opposition was Malcolm Turnbull.  He believed the science and approved of an ets to help combat global warming.

Abbott saw his opportunity, and as you Libs would say he "knifed" Turnbull. He won by one vote. Even Howard was amazed.

Then people like you began to believe Abbott's spin. 

"global warming was all crap"

"Electricity prices would skyrocket and business would go overseas". Housewives doing the ironing would be conscious of the electricity they were using.

"Whyalla would close down"

"A Sunday roast would cost $100."

It goes on and on, but you fell for it. Mind you perhaps you can be excused for being so gullible, because that foreign newspaper owner, Rupert Murdoch virtually said, and he instructed his news outlets accordingly, that everything Abbott said was true.

The big mining companies, not wishing to pay their fair share came to his party.

Then came the election. Abbott made many promises to make you feel good, you know them all. After all here was a man who could ride a bike, went to church, and could drive a fire engine.  He was good enough for you and all of those others who were likewise fooled. He made elaborate promises to "Women of calibre".

This prime ministership is just as those of us that are able distinguish spin from sincerity thought it would be, it is as simple as that.Sorry Billy Bob: Used to glance through your comments, I must say with some amusement as you try and defend the indefensible, but your last line cruelled it.  Probably give you a miss in future, you are really not up with it.Brief Comment: Do not be too quick to align yourself with Ptl, unless you want readers to believe that you have the same extreme right ideologies.

You will be able to believe that our Pete us fair and balanced when he comes on the Drum, and criticizes corruption in the corporate world, and the Liberal side of politics.

In the mean time the RC's into systemic child abuse, which actually means in many cases, rape by Catholic Priests, against children goes on.  The RC into Unions smells like Tony's revenge because he originally said  he was against a Royal Commission into institutionalised child sex abuse, because it could turn into a witch hunt against the Catholic Church .  I think people need to be occasionally reminded of this, because it is fact.lukemac: Exactly what tough decisions has Abbott taken?  What a lot of bollocks. He has taken some stupid decisions, and spent some popularity.

What tough decision has he made that caused his drop in popularity, that has meant an improvement in Australia's well being?

Bishop has had a dream run. Not in any abuse by Labor politicians, as someone said questioning her childlessness, no Alan Jones with a licence to abuse and demean, served her apprenticeship to men, by being a faithful deputy to three, and being rewarded by being the only female in the Abbott cabinet.

I saw her the other day, and at first thought that she seem to have a reasonable grasp on how to present her case, but then did what Liberal politicians invariable cannot help themselves from doing. When talking about the free trade agreements, could not resist with the spin.  "It was started by Howard, and Labor for seven years did nothing, and then brought to a conclusion by a Liberal government."

Anyone with a smidgeon of intelligence would wonder about that statement.  She is a true Liberal, and has forgotten already about Abbott's new call for consensus.

One thing though I think I would prefer Australia under Bishop than Australia under Abbott.  They keep the only really acceptable candidate out in the cold.malb: It would be a bit ridiculous to expect that Whitlam did not make mistakes, and dwell on them al all of you Menzies and Howard admirers do.

It is however a bit difficult to go past his legacy which is on a momentous scale compared to Howard's who is in the main only known for a tax initiative, and taking guns off everyone except the crooks. Oh and of course, work choices, a railway line where it wasn't needed, and Children Overboard.

Of course Howard was the only PM, but one eons ago, that lost his seat.

If you do not want to be reminded of these things, be a little generous.Peter: "But I don't believe that we fulfil that function by giving money to Governments to enable people to remain poor and dependant members of the underclass."

What a revelation! Who does?  Does having beliefs like that automatically make you eligible for  membership of the Liberal party?  If that is the case I have automatic membership.  However that is the last thing I would ever want to be associated with.

Government have the responsibility to govern for both sides of the political divide, and that means to ensure that business has the opportunity to prosper, and that part of the population that supplies the where with all for that to happen is also afforded the opportunity to share in a nation's prosperity.

Your efforts to demean those that receive assistance because the former in this equation fail to deliver, and reduce their workforces to improve profit margins, or go bankrupt after having squandered worker's entitlements, is pathetic.Fish: We are now in the world of Politics by Abbott. What you are saying was eminently sensible, but that was then. Now is now, when the norms of sensible bipartisan politics were swept under the carpet by a marauding opposition leader.

Besides this story has not finished yet.Well Dave, you will have to admit that the relevant Minister has not sold it too well.  The public will usually acquiesce to good argument.  There is a flaw in opportunistic pandering to security forces, police etc in times to make the Government look good, but difficult to make adjustments later.awake: Basically agree with your take on the situation.  Key does seem to be looking at the problem without estimating how he can gain political points.

I wrote a blog two days ago stating that Abbott in a brief speech mentioned the term "Death cult" three times. This of course was for home consumption, the same as his "Shirt fronting" which now seems has diminishes to an act of doing Putin's laundry.

People speaking against Key's comments of course repeat the obvious by calling Isis barbarians, but they are not likely to go away by being called a "Death cult", in fact the opposite.

There is little doubt that a whirlwind has been sown in the Middle East, and there is no leader in the West or anywhere else with the ability to come up with any answers.

At least leaders like Key, and commentators like Cassidy, are bringing the futility of our current approach under notice.

Not too sure that compassion, empathy and tolerance will do the trick though, at least without sound and fair political solutions.stalga: Funny how selective memory affects those of us who want to make a point.  Yes Keating, with the sharpest wit of all PM's did give "Little Johnny" a hard time,but at least it was entertaining.

Howard on the other hand was more subtle. He decimated Beasley, by making the initial comment that "He had no ticker".
This throw away line was so successful that it was repeated at every opportunity to the point, that it destroyed Beasley's chances of ever being Prime Minister.  (Add to that of course Howard's "Children overboard" ploy.)mick. You are not!!!  Please tell me how you manage that. I hate the position I am in, cringing with embarrassment every time Abbott, our Prime Minister, lumbers before a microphone with his cheese eating grin, and talks about "Death cults", Shirt fronting", "Team Australia" "Women of calibre", it goes on and on.

I know he had no respect for our first female Prime Minister, believing that she was" deliberately barren" as one of his more enlightened team put it, and should have been at the ironing board, worrying about electricity costs. But is it acceptable not to have respect for our Prime Minister?

Perhaps I am expecting too much.Well perhaps Craig we have stumbled on the right formula. Labor in for six years to introduce progressive and nation building policies, and the Coalition to do nothing but to pay for them!  Trouble is they do send us to wars too. But Labor can always be called upon to manage them properly.Craig: there is just one important observation people omit when they talk about "Deaths at sea", or as you put it "Floating in the ocean"

Are these people forced on these boats at gunpoint?

The "Deaths at sea argument" is just an excuse for the fulfilment of Howard's claim that "we do not want these type of people here, and we will decide etc etc.)Craig: Thanks for your thought about my week end.. I will enlarge on my comment that made you you mistakenly think I have no thought for people lost at sea.

Howard lost all chance of partisanship with his decision to use untrue propaganda to alarm the population that we were in danger of being flooded by heathens who were capable of throwing their children into the water to save themselves.

Admittedly Labor subsequently stuffed up, trying more humane responses, but any attempt to gain consensus from the Liberal opposition was thwarted, as you probably know.  It has been a political weapon by the now Government ever since.  They crow about "Stopping the boats" every day.

They could have had partisanship from the very beginning but the LNP decided that winning an election for Howard was more important.

I think you will agree that this is a pretty true reflection of history on the matter.

FG: No he is not! Green is quite correct in his assessment that Abbott is not the man to bring a country together in mature debate.  How could he be? This is the same man who deposed of the only politician on his side that could do just what he is now so belatedly wishing for.

Under Abbott, politics has become polarised more than ever before. Thinking people are not going to fall for "Now I am here, using every dirty trick imaginable, let us all pull together to keep me here".

I am a Labor supporter, and have no respect for this present Prime Minister. The reasons are too many to list here. However I could gain some peace of mind if they reappointed Turnbull as their leader.

The fact that Labor supporters think that Turnbull is their best operative is the very reason why the Coalition is so much against him.  So much for any thought of unanimity.Charles: Two paragraphs of unmitigated rubbish.

Glad you have a such an apparently infallible perception of what happens in the rest of the world when a conservative politician gets elected!

Your second paragraph is a pretty poor attempt to sling some kind of obscure aspersion at Labor supporters who currently make up a little more than 50% of the population.

Perhaps you should have spent your energies on a third paragraph, outlining where your superior, born to rule intellect, considers I have erred.malb: Sorry, currently just over 50% of the population, once having first hand experience of this government, prefer Labor.Terry: Many of the changes made by Whitlam did work from day one: Others like continued improvement in aboriginal welfare did not, possibly because he was not there long enough, and things returned to normal.

Governments are good at doing what you suggest, talking about new initiatives, and they invariably fall by the wayside, because oppositions, when in government usually dismantle ideas that were not their own, or do not suit their ideology. Look at the current decimation of the health and education systems by the current government.

The biggest problem with the 1967 referendum was the fact that all aborigines were suddenly then allowed unlimited access to alcohol.  As anyone who had to deal with the aftermath.But, FG, Abbott went to the last election promising no changes to the GST.

Making promises, hoping people will elect you because of them, surely should have consequences if you later break them.

The GST is that lazy way for governments to raise money. People have to be convinced that Australia is in the parlous position the fear mongers say it is.

Haven't you found that Australians, generally, will respond to emergencies in an appropriate manner. There has been too much "Cry wolf" in recent times.scupundi: Apart from all of the other broken promises he actually said "And no changes to the GST".

He did not say"No changes to the GST in this term."

People generally are a wake up to deceit.Trouble is Dave that when the Attorney General explains, no one is any the wiser.

I do not think that the police in this instance were badly overstepping the mark. The APF have learned from experience that in  these types of situations support for a Liberal Government usually means increased resources.

It there is any fault is is the government's for attempting to politicise the police force.Marko: " It staggers me , than in an age of information...."  Most of this world in and age of information believe in a superior being of one kind or another, and go into huge stone buildings to pay homage.

So far as the Government, and its leader are concerned, if this superior being said he built the world in six days, and rested on the seventh, it is good enough for them.

Our global warming policy is based on what Tony Abbott was taught in the seminary.  Do you agree with him, and for the same reasons?Zing: Having faith in that elected Government is a big part of the issue.

Many people do not have faith in this elected government because of the language it uses.

Abbott was asked a question today about an incident in Sydney. In a fairly brief response he he mentioned the term "Death cult" three times.

This is his "Children overboard moment", but he has the difficult job of pretending to keep the Muslim community alongside, and making sure that the general population sees him as one looking after their safety.

In this atmosphere he will be able to get almost any restrictive legislative through, or at least to a point where Labor decides he has gone too far. Right now they are pretty well wedged.

It is all about politics you see!

Criminals should be treated as criminals,whether they are inspired by religion or not.  We have long had law enforcement and security agencies. Prudent toughening up of some laws may be appropriate, but I cannot see where phrases like "Death cult" continually used by the Prime Minister is any more than political opportunism.

We can now safely transit from "protecting our borders" to fighting the "Death cult"Oh Lordy:

What about telling us, of all the examples given, what you and the "Right" support.

Then we would be better placed to see if you are talking sense or not.

Personally, I believe that the majority of the world's problems are caused by religion.  Too many Gods, and too many different interpretations of old worn out books, manuscripts, and pieces of stone.

It is pretty sick when people who worship the same God can hate each other with such intensity that they are prepared to kill, rape, and murder, not those of different Gods, but their own.  All religions have been capable of this.

Then when you have those of different Gods seen to be lording it over others, the demented, and delusional have added hatreds to let loose.

Someone tell me I am wrong.Ben: You think politicians should be magnanimous, provided they are Labor politicians.

Great call. Let us now that the Coalition has assumed Government on a policy of fear, and what turned out to be lies, forgive all, and assist, the perpetrators of this fraud to remain in government so that they can inflict real damage.

Save your call until Labor has been re-elected, and encourage your Liberal bed fellows to put aside all of their bitterness, and convince them that they failed, even though they kept telling us that governing would be so easy.Ben: "Holier than thou"  If your holiness was as you want those that are familiar with your posts, to believe, we would have heard before now your opposition to the PPL scheme for example.

However what you actually do is not comment on the many Abbott brain explosions, untruths, obfuscations, and lack of good government, and spent your time on the Drum criticising those that do.

I always thought that you were of the "Loony right" that supported anything the Coalition presented as policy. Glad to hear that you do necessarily support it all, but just keep it to yourself.  You must not expect the "Loony left" to be so condescending though.bobt. Logic common sense, hard to see how such a sensible take on things escapes Ben.Glad you have come to that realisation Ben.  Let us go back a few years, when Howard looked like being in strife to be re-elected.  Did he see bipartisanship when he heard rather doubtful news about the possibility of the children of boat people falling into the water. 

No! He manufactured a border security problem, where Muslim boat people were throwing their children into the water, in an effort to somehow benefit themselves.  Never mind that this was highly unlikely, and would not have had the consequences desired, but it was good re-election material.  Peter Reith also came to the party and produced photographs to convince the wavers to this proposition, and Howard came out with his infamous speech.

Think what some partisanship would have done there.

There was a natural reaction by the Labor Party to xenophobic tactics by the Coalition, and we got stuck with the current position which Abbott and Morrison have milked to this day.

Abbott is the wrong person for your pipe dream.  Perhaps Turnbull, if re elected leader would try and distance himself from what has gone before, but really your party is not interested in promoting the best man for the job.

The problem you refer to started with the Coalition, and the remedy is in their court.This Nation's biggest problem will be changing people like you Alfie, who unfortunately get a vote.

When you realise that it is not necessarily in the country's best interests to have Abbott occupy the Lodge when it is completed, and put you mind to the real issue of AGW, and more importantly the seemingly overwhelming evidence of same,we may well be saved from international embarrassment.

Currently you are happy to put your political considerations ahead of world opinion, but have you ever considered that the stakes are too high.

In saner times ideas like  "Direct action" would not get past the waste paper basket of any respectable Coalition Government, but now for some inexplicable reason, Liberals have embraced it as a new religion.  Well may be it is. May be Tony Abbott has advice from on high, but if that is the case he should tell us.

Abbott's "King coal" announcement should make respectable Australians hang their heads in shame.FG:
You are indeed brave to come to a pretty weak defence of this inept Government's "Direct action policy. However in doing so you only assert that you have confidence that the policy will not be abused. Well good luck there.

The real issue though is, do you defend the policy yourself, as being a responsible reaction to AGW?  Or are you still in the camp of the diminishing few that can dismiss the latest climate change warnings?

"Direct action" is akin to a parent paying a child for not stealing from the family purse.Peter: What you are doing is somewhat akin to a lawyer defending Hitler against war crimes.  Your chances of success are about on a parallel.

The report out today states that all fossil fuel use in generating energy must be phased out by the end of the century. I think the number of reports examined to reach this conclusion was 30,000.  Now this hardly seems to be the work of a few crackpots exaggerating the problem for personal gain.

If you follow world affairs you will come to the reasonable conclusion that Australia is being left behind in this debate.

What is the reason for this? Because we have a Prime minister who gained the position he now occupies by disregarding science in favour of religion.  Hardly a basis to decide the welfare of our grandchildren on.FG: I notice that you do not say"Show me a place on earth where the climate 30 years ago is different to what it is today."

Too much bare ground where glaciers used to be?

The trouble is anote, does anyone really believe that Abbott had any approach back down the track of this issue.

It is more likely that any opinion he had was based on opportunity, as he saw it to progress his political ambitions.  Having consulted with George Pell who convinced him the their God would not let the world be destroyed by mankind, he set about destroying Malcolm Turnbull, than in turn Rudd and Gillard, on this issue.

His opposition was certainly "Inspired", and he won over enough by his fear tactics to win Government.  Now this may be an achievement of sorts, but the complete remaking of Greg Hunt has a touch of the bizarre about it.

Australia was once considered to be at the bottom of the Earth.  We were able to credibly fight back with the help of our scientists and other academics, but once again we are becoming a place that would be a leader in the middle ages, with not even a Minister for Science.Peter: Aren't you going a little over the top? Especially in your second paragraph.

Everything has its place. Some free marketing, and some Government oversight is really what Labor is all about.

The sale of Medibank one day and the introduction of a direct action scheme to counteract, as you say an imagined problem, the next, does seem confusing behaviour by this Conservative government.

Must be ok with you though as you seem quite anxious to defend it.The clash of civilisations or cultures, is really a clash of the Gods.

There are so many Gods you would think they could have it out, up there in the stratosphere somewhere, and then the winner could convince earthlings there is but one true God.

Too bad if yours is not the one, as long as you comply with the majority 90% of the world's problems would be solved.

Then we would only fight over who has the best portion of the planet, but the God that is left may be able to instil a bit of generosity and compassion, now he has our total attention, and share the wealth of this planet around more evenly.  Then again maybe not because with so many Gods to choose from, the Earth's inhabitants really learned nothing, and each is for him/her self.

Perhaps with some enlightenment man will wake up to himself in another 1000 years.  Don't bother trying to solve the problem now.Peter: Chances it will never happen anyway. We already have counter terrorism laws.  Why is an Australian being harmed by some 17 year old mentally deficient any worse than someone dying in some other way as they do every day?  The money could be spent more efficiently in other areas to save Australian lives.  But of course there are no votes there.Roger:  Well I believe you. I have been well and truly conned, because you said so.  The only thing I would like you to explain so I do not feel so stupid for believing all of those scientists, is how did they fake all of those pictures of our ice sheets falling into the sea and showing bare land where ice sheets used to be.

Perhaps you will say that it is a natural phenomenon.  What are the odds of that happening at the same time as humans are pumping record volumes of CO2 into the atmosphere?Gary: There is a Claytons penalty.  Hunt has provided for that very occurrence.  However there is no monetary penalty involved. I think Hunt is going to growl at then.

This policy has become so demeaning to the intelligence of the normal observer, and Hunt so hopeless in selling it, one can but feel utter despondence about what to expect from this Government for the next two years.That is third on their list. Second is paying University students not to vote.GB: If you read the article again you will see that Peris put a proposition to her employer which was accepted.  Bolden apparently fulfilled his contract to everyone's satisfaction.

Peris was not a politician at the time.

People will eventually wake up to the fact that E mains and text messages are not private.

There can be no charge for stupidity. If there was, most of our politicians would be criminals.DT: The Government keeps telling us that this tax will be painless, and will not raise much, so that sort of defeats your argument.

It is becoming more and more obvious that we have blockheads trying to run our economy. It does all come down to fairness.  Australians are in the main open to logical persuasion, and will part with their money, even if a little reluctantly if they think there is no option for the good of the country.

This Government proves every day that the paye taxpayer is the cow that keeps on giving.

There is little attempt at the same time to tackle tax evasion, rein in stupid schemes like the proposed PPL, or the tax avoidance rort connected to superannuation.

Australians generally cannot walk to work.  Australia is a big country, to have to pay more tax on the commodity that gets you to work in order to pay tax in the first place, is not the best idea going around.John 1. I applaud every time the Senate rejects a Liberal initiative, even if it may be by some fluke a sensible one.  But of course that has not happened yet. (A sensible one I mean).

Australia had a hard working Labor Government lead by a competent woman. The main problem of course was that she was red headed, unmarried, childless, and living in sin. But the worst was that she was an atheist, and did not have weekly conferences with George Pell.

Abbott and members of the present Government helped to destroy her by convincing people that normal Australian values were not what they used to be.

This Government has become farcical. Who would have believed for instance that Greg Hunt, once a committed conservationist, believing in pricing carbon could turn into the babbling Minister that appears on our screens on a daily basis.

Abbott who criticised Labor for seeking the help of sensible independents is now in bed with Palmer who does not know what he stands for.

The Senate which is not led by Shorten, would be derelict in its duty if it ever passed anything proposed by this Government, and thereby extended its term by even a day.The so called successes of the withdrawal of the mining and carbon taxes are really a blight on the good name of this country so far as sound economic management is concerned.

They were a good tool for Abbott to roll Turnbull, and eventually force his way into the Lodge, but the fulfilment of his ambition is of little value to Australia.

We overcame a much more severe setback when Howard, as Libs do raised taxes with his policy of world parity prices for fuel.

Now we only have to be concerned about the environment, and instead of having a start on the rest of the world, will but a small inconvenience to us, we are coming from behind., and look stupid.
Adults being in charge! I do not think so!AM; You are being pedantic, but never mind, I am sure you understand.

BTW I believe that accommodation was provided, and leased for Abbott, at no little expense, but he had to hit the headlines and pretend he was frugally living at the Police Academy.

I would be pleased to be told that his little sojourn there is actually saving the taxpayer money.  Nothing is surer than that he is receiving daily travelling allowance, which of course goes along with that so well earned by his "Pollie pedals".

Ah, but then perhaps I am being too cynical.

As to the answer to your question, it depends on whether the Lodge will be finished within the next two years.neil: I would be really interested to know whether what you are say is accurate and factual, or merely LNP guff.

It does seem strange that what in effect was a fairly modest carbon tax would have the impact you state it did.

It also seems that the Liberal Party would have used the example given by you, instead of Abbott trying to convince everyone that Whyalla would be wiped out.neil: I would be really interested to know whether what you are say is accurate and factual, or merely LNP guff.

It does seem strange that what in effect was a fairly modest carbon tax would have the impact you state it did.

It also seems that the Liberal Party would have used the example given by you, instead of Abbott trying to convince everyone that Whyalla would be wiped out.Not all that surprising when Abbott's attitude observed over the years is taken into account.

Do not forget that he spent three years in a seminary, where if he had stuck at it females would be calling him"Father", and in time tending to his every day to day needs.

It is a big call for his mindset to change from that to equality in on his front bench.Not all that surprising when Abbott's attitude observed over the years is taken into account.

Do not forget that he spent three years in a seminary, where if he had stuck at it females would be calling him"Father", and in time tending to his every day to day needs.

It is a big call for his mindset to change from that to equality in on his front bench.Ben: You are a worry!  "Class-envy warriors". What exactly do you mean by that?

Surely you accept that you live in a society where, if governed properly, everyone has a right to expect a comfortable and satisfying standard of living, provided they take advantage of the opportunities afforded to them.

Conservatives like yourself invariable attribute your good fortune in life to be as a result of your own hard work and diligence.

You need to get around a bit and you will discover that everyone was not born to one of Abbott's "Women of calibre", or may not necessarily have your intelligence to have taken advantage of the free education you received.

Your use of that phrase puts you in the same class as Joe Hockey, who may,  just as well have also spent three years in a seminary, as did his leader, cloistered from the outside world.Trouble is rb. is that too many of the Coalition were born with a silver spoon, and inherited their good fortune.  Those that actually earned it are usually the last to look down their noses.Ben. What is the GST. or any indirect tax. How do the poor avoid paying that?  Do think again.Ben: The Public Service conditions never came into the discussion until long after Abbott floated his brain explosion for "Women of calibre". It was originally mooted to lift productivity, although no explanation how it could lift productivity by $5bil. per year was ever forthcoming.

Public service PPL is a red herring.  It is a condition of employment, also taken up by some in private industry.

Abbott's other line about it being considered the same as annual leave is just as stupid as his other justifications. Annual leave is normally four weeks, His PPL is six months.

I am surprised that you consider that big business should pay for women having children, and then eventually the taxpayer at an exorbitant rate when we already have a satisfactory PPL scheme, something Abbott was once violently against.  According to his own words he is on a death wish.Ben: Good to be able to drag a little honesty out of you. One would have thought that you favoured Abbott's brain explosion.

So your message is that all paid paternity leave should be withdrawn, including that for public servants.  It should no longer be used as a condition of employment. Any other conditions you want to go by the board?

You are making an assumption that those against "The Captains choice" are in favour of ppl for civil servants.

Truth is that you will defend anything Abbott does till your dying day.Ben: Good to be able to drag a little honesty out of you. One would have thought that you favoured Abbott's brain explosion.

So your message is that all paid paternity leave should be withdrawn, including that for public servants.  It should no longer be used as a condition of employment. Any other conditions you want to go by the board?

You are making an assumption that those against "The Captains choice" are in favour of ppl for civil servants.

Truth is that you will defend anything Abbott does till your dying day.Bev: You really have no idea. None of us do because the cost of orange lifeboats, and all of the other security measures including naval and customs resources are kept well hidden.Difficult to see this Government lasting to 2020. Abbott will never be popular, and the Libs are just too scared to try anyone else.  Turnbull is the only one that would be acceptable to a majority of Australians, and he is on the outer. Talk about Bishop and Morrison is just kite flying.

Shorten is not the success it was hoped he would be, and he should learn that his religious beliefs are of no interest to the rest of us.  We get enough of that from Abbott, and previously Rudd.

However it is still very possible that Government under Shorten and Bowen will be preferred by the electorate than another 3 years of Abbott and Hockey.  But then Hockey, is he gone or not? The rumblings are about!Only in some cases Ben. The incompetent and stupid bit certainly applies to a particular PPL scheme.Aaron:  The trouble is that the author, in pointing out why Labor,strayed from its ETS, failed to adequately do so at the time.

Nearly every journalist, particularly those employed by News Corp. emphasised what they saw as capitulation on an issue Rudd described as the "Greatest Moral challenge of out time".

Very little attention was given the fact that Labor tried on three occasions to get an ETS through parliament.  Gillard reading the writing on the wall made her statement about no carbon tax, and circumstances caused her to change her mind. This change of mind was ruthlessly called a Lie by Abbott, with no doubt the full support of the Author, certainly by News Corp. journalists.

Where were the explanatory notes by the press then?

Correspondents of The Drum gave a better understanding of why Labor had to change tack than any baying journalist did.Jerry: Wisdom from and old one!But Gordon, why do you then read The Drum.  I cannot agree with you or Keith.  I respond to the political scene, following my particular ideology, in the hope, I will admit a forlorn one, that someone might agree and help vote this incompetent government out.Ben: You can be forgiven for doing the good Liberal thing, but at least acknowledge that we came out of the GFC better than most other counties, and that Labor was in Government.

We do not know haw the GFC would have been handled by the Coalition, so it is only conjecture as to how we would have fared.

The GFC was apparently caused by the ideology, and actions of conservatives, so there is no guarantee that conservatives in this country, would have rectified anything.Spud: The few billion Howard put away was a pittance, compared to what a prudent prime minister should have done. Had not he squandered billions on every middle class welfare programme he could think of, including unwanted tax cuts for the wealthy, a burden we are still carrying, subsequent governments would have had it easy.

It is easy to be selective in your quoting of political history, a practice perfected by Ben the Lawyer, and yourself, and to use your own argument, Howard spent without caring for the consequences down the track.

Where does Abbott's ridiculous PPL scheme fit into your spending without worrying about consequence.  Of course we all know that this particular "Captain's choice" is dead in the water, but, it is still a good example extravagant spending, by someone who professes to be an "Adult in charge"

It is unlikely that the multinational finance companies like Lehman Bros supported the Democrats.SVJ: No I am afraid, like the current lot in government, you do not get it.  It is called structural deficit.  Spending all the money you have got in tax breaks, and extravagance, that following governments have to honour or face the wrath of the electorate.

Had Howard spent the wealth which emanated from the China boom on infrastructure and not pork barrelling, we would still have the infrastructure, and not the structural deficit.

The only infrastructure Howard was responsible for was a railway line between Alice Springs and Darwin. A doubtful venture to help the local member.

Actually your prognosis is worse. Howard knew that there would soon be a Labor Government, so he was intent on spending all he had.Ben: I have come to the sad, but obvious conclusion that you are a lost cause.  I would have thought that you might, just might acquiesce on one logical point made by those replying to your blogs, but you have adopted the stance of one under extreme pressure trying to defend this government, and you will go down fighting, and admit nothing.

Just a slight admission, that despite its faults the "Pink batts" policy, kept a lot of worthy people off the dole queue, as did the school halls programme, will do!Well Mike we should be at least singing Labor's praises in years to come for the NDIS, plain packaging Gonski ,PPL scheme are but a few, but Abbott's only policy a glorified PPL scheme is down the drain.  He had better think of something. He has only two years left.GRF: You lose all credibility when you bounce around the $600 bil. debt figure.  That dubious figure is arrived at by fanciful predictions of revenue and spending being on the same course for years down the track.

It would the duty of any Government, Liberal or Labor to fix that problem, it is only a matter of how you would go about it.

If Howard had nor given unnecessary tax cuts in time of plenty, the figure would not be so high.  he gave tax cuts to the wealthy, and Abbott wants to recover it from the needy. Liberal philosophy.fran;: Publicising yourself as one of the few remaining climate change sceptics around is not an enlightening piece of news so far as this particular topic is concerned.Terry: It was not only a fear campaign,(The carbon tax) but it was accompanied by by a lot of lies and exaggerations  like Whyalla wipe out, and the end of almost every industry that used electricity.  Now that it is all over, only 7% of Australians believe they are getting cheaper electricity.

The position of most of the world's leaders is changing on climate change, a position that leaves Abbott, and apparently yourself more and more isolated.  It now seems that the risk is too great to ignore. California is currently experiencing an unprecedented drought, and Japan recently severe floods.

If you had a headache, you would take a Panadol, something  discovered by scientists.Malcolm: Of course you are right. I have said it before on The Drum, but just for the benefit of Coalition supporters I will say it again, and hope the Moderator does not accuse me of repetition.

Fear is the Liberal party's best weapon. I will exclude the Nationals here. They only reap the benefits,

Menzies had his "Reds under the bed", and from that day, the Liberals, conveniently forgetting that no one in their own party had the ability to govern during a real war,the "Fear factor" has been their best electoral tool.

Howard used it with his nationalistic speech, "We will decide who comes to this country....", and Abbott and Morrison have continued the tradition, secure borders and all that.

A lot more will have to happen for me not to go outdoors because of fear of a terrorist attack.

On the other hand I may be inclined to stay at home if Ebola struck here.  Are we doing anything yet?Kevin: I do not think that Australians think that the Coalition is better in times of war.  In the second world war Menzies was unable to cope and we were saved by Curtin.

All the Coalition is good at is convincing Australians that we should get involved in every little fracas.GRF: Overcooking the egg doesn't  either.  Australia has always had fairly respectable gun laws.  Howard lessened the numbers of guns in the community, which was a good thing. However it is pretty well know that not many criminals handed their illegal guns in for destruction.yank: Agree to some extent, but you have overlooked one main determinant as to the behaviour of the present Labor Party.

We are in different times. Labor has learnt to its sorrow the power of divisive politics, and the use of xenophobia as a weapon.  Howard invented it, ably assisted by Alan Jones, and a willing MSM.

Nationalism, secure borders, our way of life under some imagined threat has an impact with the easily swayed.

Serious issues like climate change that may impact on our contented way of life are down played.

The current issue of Terrorism is likely to ensure more support for this Government, particularly if you listen to its representatives who consider one death by a demented religious nutter more serious than Ebola.

Julie Bishop was so shocked that that she found cause to tell us that Tony Abbott was even in the Canadian Parliament some months ago. He came so close he probably deserves a medal.

Not much more Labor can do but stick by its principles on the home front.

tc: Not really true. I get my daily kick by criticising Abbott. he gives me so much ammunition.  Unlike so many Liberal supporters who have forgotten Abbott's duplicity in opposition, it is still fresh in my mind.

I am still waiting for the "Adults" to make this a better country.

Some of my comment telling the truth about Abbott and his Government does not appear on the Drum, but much of it does.harry: please try and get your mind around the fact that we are talking about the ethics of the Prime Minister in allowing his daughter to accept a generous scholarship that she would have been offered in other circumstances.

Shady dealings of Governments generally are well known, and that is another story.harry: It really comes down to a matter of principle: Miss Abbott would not have been awarded the scholarship had she not been the daughter of the Prime Minister.  That seems indisputable.

Abbott had a decision to make, to stand by his professed principles,or take the chance that the scholarship would go un noticed.  He chose the latter, and has revealed himself to be a mere mortal, and not God's gift to this nation.Nom: The Unions gave birth to the Labor Party, so your argument does not hold water.

Coal mining companies have no direct link with the formation of the Liberal National party.  The LNP respond to Coal companies in return for financial donations.

Do you really think that Abbott would be out there advocating the benefits of coal, against world opinion, if there was no money attached.Tom: Actually I was railing about the oft use put down of Labor for accepting financial assistance from the Unions.  As I said the unions gave birth to the Labor Party.

The coal industry has only recently bought out the LNP. The take over is all but complete.

Of course coal has played a part in the industrialisation of the world, and bought riches to many, even if it did take kids in coal mines with candles.  However now there seems irrefutable evidence that coal is not all that good for the environment. Tony Abbott seems just about the only one that does not believe this.Tom: Let us just take No.1. You are pretty well on your lonesome here.  To you really think that $5 bil per year will be generated by paying women at normal rates for six months. Where is your evidence for this?  Abbott saying so is not evidence.  What is it about the proposed legislation that will induce women to return to work earlier.

Encouraging women to join the work force with the intention of having a baby sounds like social engineering to me.

In any event it is a dead duck, and Abbott can save face by claiming he could not get it through the Senate.To get your vote Waterloo Labor would have to endure that there is a greater divide between the Liberal rich, and the Labor poor.  Achieving your vote would be counter balanced by losing mine.Walter: Difficult to know whether you are serious or not, but in case you are not just a plant to get a response, I will respond anyway.

In three years Whitlam achieved more than all of the Coalition Prime ministers immediately before, and those that followed him.

Most of his policies have stood the test of time, and if you want to list them all just look at any currently running TV programme.

Howard in three or four terms introduced the GST, which was not his idea, built a railway line from no where to no where to win an election, and took every ones' except the crooks guns away.  Made most people fairly comfortable from trade with where..... Oh yes China. Gough again.

Fraser, well he ??????

Abbott, well nothing yet, plenty of discord. Maybe will make rich mothers' richer, but even that seems unlikely.

Gough's achievements, as any progressive policy is,were made against strident opposition from the conservatives who always fight tooth and nail for the status quos which goes back to Menzies, who epitomised the ideal by quoting "I but say her passing by.............")Gregory:  Modern man will live closer to 100 than ever before. Give it time.Bev: I will try to appeal to your common sense. I hope that is not a futile exercise!

What was the T shirt trying to achieve in the current climate?  It was provocative to some people, and to others like yourself, appropriate.  Many thought that Alan Jones' comments that caused the Cronulla riots were appropriate too.

John Howard knew the strength of xenophobia in the community with his infamous speech, "We will decide......"

It looks as though the Senator from SA is sent out to fly a few kites, and if it catches on, a debate will follow. He appears to have lost this one.

It seems a reasonable thing to say "If you do not like our country, go home" but that type of approach has never succeeded.

People will assimilate in time, and our own culture may change a little too, even I hope not to the point of wearing face coverings, but there is no cause to be threatened by them.

It is a bit difficult to say these days who is in the majority. People only believe the polls when their own team is in front.  The opinions of like minded people in a close circle of friends does not make a majority.TinaT. Not fully understanding their reasons, I feel sorry for women who for whatever reason consider themselves compelled to continually keep their face covered.

However I do not feel threatened, as often their eyes are soft and warm.  I think I would recognise the eyes of a terrorist.

I also find it strange that grown men can dress up in dresses, and all kinds of fancy gear, including head wear, and carry around pots of smoke, and receive the adoration of millions, including our Prime Minister.

Providing neither of the above infringe on my well being, I just hope one day the "Adults will really be in charge"Agree Peter. Bearded men wearing sun glasses should be banned too.

Seriously though I suppose it is because our law makers consider, maybe even erroneously, that some bikies do not totally respect the law, and there is a chance that a get away vehicle is waiting outside.

I know, lets have a law against women in Burkas, entering a bank if they are wearing a motorcycle helmet, with a motor cycle running outside.Kev: All crimes committed by people not wearing a Burka are not solved.

When it actually happens maybe you will have an argument.

Unfortunately as it is your argument is akin to bringing in seat belts if there had never been a motor accident.Cormann's comment is really pathetic. Difficult to say it is not sexist, but it certainly pathetic in the context it was made.

By now the polls should have indicated to the Government that their budget is on the nose with a majority of the population.

This is not Shorten's fault. Nor is it Labor's fault. It is not incumbent on the opposition to ensure unfair budgets get passed, to the detriment of the public generally.

The stupid ranting about Labor having no alternative does not hold water. We are not yet in election mode, and besides they have offered some money saving options.

Cormann leaves himself open to similar derogatory remarks, simply because of his undeniable German appearance and accent. Colonel Klink is not sexist, it may be a little racist, and that is why Labor does not respond in kind.gbe: Prior to Cormann's deliberate, pathetic attempt to shift the blame with a stupid comment, You would have thought it was inappropriate for a politician in his position, to say such a thing.

You are so Coalition, you are prepared to put aside your principles to defend him.  Aren't you getting tired of defending foot in the mouth utterances?gbe:  How about the budget being unfair.?  If you think the opposite, why not spend a few minutes justifying your convictions.

While you are at it, spend a few extra minutes justifying the "Captains choice" PPL thought bubble for "Women of calibre".Paula Matthewson, former advisor to John Howard has said it all. Politics is a game of getting into power, and once there use every means, foul or fair to stay there. If you can do something for the country in the mean time, so well and good, they should be grateful.

Was she an advisor to Howard when he decided to misconstrue our border vulnerability by implying that some terrible boat people were throwing their children into the water, to gain unlawful entry?  The ploy of course worked, and is still doing its re election bit for the Coalition to this day. 

We are an island nation, but suddenly border protection became front and centre.

Now Abbott and Morrison apparently have had a few sleepless nights in deciding how not to lose this advantage.

They have decided to forget the fact that we are a part of a world community, and pay our way out of any Ebola responsibilities with a pittance.

Had Abbott said when initially approached on this subject that Australia would help with boots on the ground, as soon as appropriate safety and evacuation measures can be attended to, he would have received support from the opposition.

Instead his vote winning "Border protection" policy may have been under some sort of siege, so what came first, self preservation. (For the Coalition of course)

Now they have belatedly dreamed up the excuse of us being the protector of our own region. I may add that Keiran Gilbert had to put that question to Dutton this morning on AM Agenda before he thought of it.

Volunteers can of course selflessly proceed to West Africa on their own volition, and you would have to think they will never return home, by the standards set by the Government.OUB. Read Jerry's contribution,(below).

Your thinking is a bit confused bringing our contribution to East Timor's welfare.  Different circumstances, different time. Hardly needed the might of the American armed forces.

Ebola is a health issue, now an epidemic, and headed for a pandemic.

We as a nation that keeps patting ourselves on the back as an exceptional world citizen should not be sitting back, and hoping that other nations will do the job without us. In fact it is rather surprising that the Coalition, and apparently yourself should think like you do, particularly in respect to their willingness to once again go into Iraq.gbe  Abbott was apparently unable to explain anything. When first asked they had not decided whether this was a "Sovereign borders"issue or not.

They have now decided that it is, and do not want their mantra falling down around them, and have come up with all sorts of excuses why we as a world citizen cannot assist in a crisis.

All he has to say is "If and when the safety and repatriation requirements of our volunteers, or health care workers are satisfied, we will assist", as other nations have done.

Being "Policeman" in our own sphere has only just occurred to them as the latest excuse.gbe. Your comments are getting more pathetic by the minute.

Have we no responsibilities to our volunteer health workers?

The Government should be actively working to overcome the problems they say are preventing action on our part, and advise the public what steps it will take when such problems are overcome.

Now it just looks as though we as a nation are avoiding our world responsibilities which is strange because I thought "The adults were in charge".No comments when I went to print, so I do not have to read all of the anti ABC diatribe that usually accompanies Mungo's contributions.

One has to admit though that Mungo has Abbott's M.O. down to a T.

Here is a question. Which would be closest to utopia. Australia under Abbott, or Australia under Mungo.  Mungo by a nose.The author put his finger on it when he referred to "Overstated admiration", when it comes to conversation with our Asian neighbours.

In actual fact it comes over as something between grovelling, and the complete opposite, speaking from a superior vantage point, talking down.  Sort of covering all bases.

Even the most simple of us can detect insincere praise when we hear it.

There are dozens of ways our Prime minister, and Foreign minister can express a need for friendship between two countries that do not offend the senses.clete:  And you work for which Coalition Minister?  No I retract that, even a Coalition spokesperson could not dream up a comment so unbalanced.

They would be hesitant about using "Suck up style" after Abbott has been around Asia calling  each leader his "Best friend".

They would also be a little reluctant to infer that our security agencies were any different under liberal.frank: Not sure that your proposition stands up. The liberal machine is still talking about the damage to the cattle trade caused by Labor. And just over a few brutalised cattle.

Abbott is not shy on grovelling a little, or a lot as needs be, as he has already evidenced with so many" Best friends."

Your argument is not based on reality, but really anti left spin.Erick. About all you have achieved is letting everyone know that you think animal welfare has no place in our trade considerations.

Actually it seems that the cattle trade is back to normal, and some cattle are not experiencing agonising deaths.

If Australia has what Indonesia needs, trade will flourish. They are not likely to let Tony Abbott's strange persona influence their decisions unless the same trade goods can be purchased elsewhere at a cheaper price.

Indonesia is a developing country, but has enough nous not to cut off its nose to spite its face.S.M. Abbott's effusive support of the coal industry is just another example of his poor judgement.  One thing to perhaps say that coal will have an important part to play in our energy requirements for years to come, but to go overboard like he did  defies simple logic.

It seems unlikely that he will be able to restrict a slow transition to renewable energy, and his exaggerated talk just means that he is set on being left out of the debate.You may be right about Abbott, the man that is sticking to his PPL scheme. However Abbott is a temporary Aberration, and the interests of Australia indicate that common sense should prevail, and alternatives should be in the mix somewhere.It is easy to accept that a man called Jesus did live. He was undoubtedly a good bloke, with compassionate caring principles that he tried pretty vainly to inspire others to live by.

He was probably the first member of the Labor Party, but came up against a bunch of conservatives that would have none of it.

Strange in today's politics that those same compassionate, caring principles, only come to the fore in very limited circumstances, and not too often by those that hold him in a higher light than sound reasoning suggests.gman: To answer your question, it may be to let a certain high political office bearer, and many of his close associates, believe that the ABC is not so bad after all.

The ABC can suffer a little questioning of its credibility if it appeases those unlucky enough to be caught in the clutches of certain organisations until they were seven years old.Luke:  I like you was a believer.  After all my Sunday School teacher told me all about Noah's Arc, and I fervently sang Little Jesus Meek and Mild.  I had all of the faith you could ask for.  As I got a little older and, not like you apparently, started to use my own brains, I became an agnostic. That is of course is having two bob each way.

My adult brain tells me that in the balance of probabilities, God is a myth, even though I am prepared to concede that a prophet called Jesus, with good intentions did exist, I have joined the ranks of the atheist.

I become more convinced every passing day that churches are businesses, wealthy ones at that and they should solve our financial problems and pay taxes like any other business.

Many, not all people that run these business lack morals, and cover up some of the most despicable sins imaginable. Some of the others in these businesses do good charitable  work, but such charity does not make it in any way "the work of God"happy: You are able to defend your political ideology, no matter what the odds. The LNP needs more like you.

Imagine if Rudd or Gillard said anything similar to how our "Grown up" Prime Minister expressed his conduct would be when he meets the leader of another country.  You would be beside yourself with condemnation.

Of course you like Abbott throw in the bereaved 37 families for good measure, even though the same families have expressed concern about his approach.

Reminds me of the Joh Queensland Government. Strange behaviour, misquotes,nepotism, shady deals, ending in corruption, all crept up on the public without them realising it for years. What once would never have been tolerated became the norm.

When people begin to justify the actions of this "Grown up" Government, it indicates we are headed the same way.Terry2:  That is actually the real problem. This man is our Prime minister. he has extraordinary power in this country, but somehow thinks it extends world wide.

When is the Coalition going to put aside all of its internal bickering s, and elect Malcolm Turnbull until they get tossed out. That way we could get back some self respect, because I do not think Turnbull is any where near as cringe worthy.

I can but agree, where was his mind when he said, "You bet you are"?Gregory: Your naivety is showing.  Your sort of argument is similar to that given by politicians. unfortunately it needs the recipient to be a little slow witted.

It is the time and space in which the singlet with its message showed up, is what is relevant.I am not familiar with the circumstances surrounding this discussion. but cannot see much wrong with a statement that points out the deficiencies, and lack of credibility in articles written by News Corp.  Just look at their journalists who are unabashed Coalition supporters, faithfully carrying out their employer's wishes.John1:  Strange how Universities, and the ABC are all full of "Lefties".

Universities are supposed to be for our best and brightest young people.  Does it ever enter your mind to ask why they should prefer the politics of the left to those espoused by Abbott and Hockey.

The ABC is continually tarred with the same brush, by those I can only describe as having a yen for Menzies, and Queen and Mother England.  Mind you I am of the same vintage, but believed we have moved on.

While you are trying to solve your conundrum consider that what is dished up by the conservative side of politics over the past several years is so bad that it has not much to be optimistic about.I have read many of the comments following this article.

I ask myself what is the point of it? 

Everyone knows Kevin Donnelly is a devout Catholic, and one can only assume that his intention is to try and persuade others to the same beliefs.

People that read The Drum I would imagine are, on the whole, fairly mature, and have decided one way or the other as to whether there is a God or not, and whether a belief in a God can bring comfort.

Certainly when I hear "How Great Thou Art" by George Beverly Shea, I am stirred, who would not be, but it does nothing to convince me that there is a superior being, dedicated to looking after the interests of mankind.

It does nothing to turn me from thinking that people leading this country with unrealistic beliefs should keep them entirely to themselves, and not appoint people of the same ilk to decide on things like school curriculum's. Nor to decide by way of those beliefs whether or not euthanasia should be allowed, or on Australian foreign aid with certain restrictions.

There is this strange conviction by some that only those with religion can he good, honest, and compassionate.  Often the opposite seems to be the case.Jimbob: Sounds laudable, but if Labor did refuse to entertain any of the dirty tricks employed by the LNP would you then vote for them?  Of course not. You were happy that such despicable tactics helped in getting the party you voted for gain office.

Now like many of the deluded LNP politicians, you state that Labor "Is not playing fair."  Spare the hypocrisy.pauline: Could you please give some examples of Labor's vindictiveness, so we can compare them, for example against Abbott's expensive R.C into "Pink Batts".

Not much good just making accusations, not backed up by credible examples.APM: Just as well you are not a Historian. You would be working for Christopher Pyne telling all of our school children that after settling in an unoccupied land, Captain Cook and his fellow Christian settlers were attacked by hordes of black, heathen invaders who said they were here first.

Your summation of recent political history is just about as fanciful.

You haven't even mentioned the influence of the Murdoch Press in the downfall of Rudd, and then Gillard.

Abbott may have been able to convince you that Whyalla would be wiped off the map, and a roast would cost $100, but at least most of the others that were temporarily taken in have come to their senses.

I will bet you even think that Abbott has a mandate for his luxurious PPL scheme, for women of calibre.  Many of his own party are not that dumb.Of course you are correct Craig:  Howard would be wise to go into a more secluded retirement, and stop justifying the "Liberal way."

Howard had a time of unprecedented prosperity, made everyone comfortable with their BMW's and four bedroom mansions.  Now Abbot, so he thinks, has to add an elaborate PPL scheme so the constituents pandered to by Howard can have children and pay off the extravagances of the Howard years at the same time.

Who is the worst offender, a Prime Minister who squandered when he had plenty, or a Prime minister, forced to spend to prevent joining a global down turn.  The Libs. we have running the country now, of course would say the latter. 

The Coalition have this strange justification for their cuts, not born on any data from the ABS, "Labor did it so we can just do it more so. " That is their argument for the Medicare co payment. "Labor has a co payment on Pharmaceuticals, so we can have one on Doctor's visits." " Labor brought in HEX, so we can increase it."

This is not the type of argument that will wash with intelligent people.  What a shambolic bevy of ministers they have got, from the Prime Minister down with his ppl. Abetz with his 40 job applications. Brandis with his kite flying, and subsequent back downs. Hockey trying to sell a dud budget.

12 months into a government when stocks should be sky high, and behind in the polls.What! Is Whyalla still there?  How people have forgotten about the tactics used to get this Government elected (Read that failed Government!)CP: I typed a few comments yesterday on the Drum, but they weren't  published.  I considered for a while that the Moderator may have thought that I was too realistic for Coalition readers who would be upset.

However having read your spiel I can see that the writing on conflated crap does not necessarily mean that it will not get aired.

Just take a deep breath, and consider for a moment why this opposition you so violently rant against is actually ahead in the polls and has been for the most of time this inept coalition government has been in office.

The answer must surely be that despite all of its failings Labor is preferable to the party you -plug for so unreasonably.CP: Good of you to give us an outline of how a dedicated Coalition supporter would report on the may inquiries going on at the moment, and how to point out all of the damaging facts about the horrible Labor Party, using a selective memory.

You will find that Shorten will put more space between himself and Unions, and also try and improve the image of unions, a difficult task.

The public however cannot take much solace from your comments because they know that the party you so fiercely support has its own demons.

One wonders why Peter Slipper, a once favoured son of Abbott, is carrying the can for all of the other Coalition M's.P who have rorted the travelling allowance system.TOJ. Did not know the RC had brought down its final report.

For all you actually know the Commissioner my even, in the end congratulate the Union movement on its integrity and honesty.

We probably need to wait and see.Malcolm: Stop talking sense! You will be accused of being an ABC plant by the many that have taken up the Latest Liberal cause "Decimate the ABC"

Those poor deluded ones have lost faith in their Government ever getting their budget passed. They know as Michael Kroeger said that Abbott's Captain's choice" policy, super prams and bassinets for rich babies, whilst paying off the BMW's will not get through the Senate, so attacking the ABC is the current sport.Eric: There must be more room in the telephone booth these days, where the AGM of AGW Deniers' was held. There were probably a couple of others beside you and Tony.

To accept your premise just requires normal thinkers to deny the evidence of the worlds' best scientific minds, and the intelligence of the leaders of most of the worlds nations, now prepared to spend billions on combating AWG.  The biggest stretch however is that the undeniable melting of our ice caps and glaciers is just a normal coincidence, happening every 30,000 years or so. The industrial revolution and onwards of course has had nothing to do with it.

Good luck with your cause!!Personally I would like to hear from all of those so willing to send the allies into the original Iraq war that they got it wrong, and they apologise for it. Not to hear about Howard's embarrassment, but confession of a genuine blunder.

Then I would be happy to see us engage in a limited way in the current conflict, provided Abbott gets off the stage for a while.

Things like chaplains in schools, to perpetuate myths could be put on hold, that would provide for half of it.mick: Any governments first priority is to instigate fair effective, and equitable legislation for the parliament to consider.

Your argument is spurious.

It is unbelievable that supposedly intelligent people can use your sort of argument.  What is this nation coming to?TGU. I never give up hope of trying to enlighten confused Coalition supporters.  

Labor is ion opposition. It has no responsibility this early in the election to frame a budget.

Everyone knows that there are squillions squirreled away for the benefits of Coalition supporters. The PPL scheme for "Women of calibre". Superannuation tax rorts for the super rich. Negative gearing, just for three.

I do believe that even you could have thought of those three initiatives, only one of which may in some way affect the economy, that is negative gearing on the housing marked. But that may not be such a bad idea.  The other two alone would go a long way to fixing any imaginary budget mess.Rob: Cannot follow your thinking. We were talking about what Labor could do in the present circumstances to assist the so called budget mess.

Coalition supporters like to convince us the GFC was of no account, but fondly keep on rabbiting about pink batts.

The Government has to respond to the current situation, take responsibility for their CURRENT actions and promises. Things will not get any better for them, and Abbott's unrealistic dreams of his economic wizardry will be just that , dreams.Realist. Not: Then was then, now is now. How long do you think you can keep this up, calling on supposed Labor failings for the ineptitude of the ones you voted for?

Right now it is Liberal policy to introduce a Paid Parental leave scheme that will give "Women of calibre" $50,000 to have a baby. Abbott wanted it to be $75,000. Remembering that ppl of any sort would be over Abbott's dead body, who is the imposer calling himself Prime minister now?

John Howard, a Coalition PM You might remember was said to have been, by reliable sources, the most profligate PM in Australia's history. He also gave unwanted tax deductions to the middle class, without which the budgetary problems would not exist.

I suppose when your main aim is to take the heat off an incompetent government, it pays to have a selective memory, but there is no excuse for a complete memory blackout.Realist. Please do not make silly incorrect statements. Labor is not blocking every avenue available.  What you should have said is "Labor is blocking every stupid, unfair and inequitable avenue this incompetent government has put up."

There are many avenues available, PPL, ( a thought bubble) negative gearing, tax concessions on super for the rich, shall I go on?

Care to have another go?

Ben: I thought the mob you vote for were trying their hardest to finalise a FTA with China.  Getting a lot of kudos too.

Double standards somewhere in your line.TGU: It depends how man of the population know that Howard started the boat people problem, and Abbott and Morrison continued the divisiveness' to their own advantage, and that Labor managed the GFC better than most.

Your scenario assumes that the people swallow Liberal b.s about dire financial difficulties, something that the Coalition has added to.

We do not know what the Coalition is going to do when faced with realities of Government . Why should Labor offer them credible alternatives at this stage?It is time this country grew up and consigned  beliefs and superstitions so rampant in the dark ages to the scrap heap.

The price of having an organisation as powerful as the Catholic Church is leaving  the lives of thousands of our once innocent children with shattered and broken lives.

As far as the church is concerned, its welfare comes first, and everything else, including the law second.

The shattering part of the Royal Commission is the fact that only now is the full story being told, and the perpetrators , in the main hidden off in retirement somewhere, or no longer with us.

There seems no doubt that law enforcement agencies have some accounting to do. The influence of the church has always been evident in Police forces, to the extent , in some states that Royal Commissions have been called after claims of excessive church influence.

The trouble is Governments have also been complicit.  Church schools fostered, and now the shameful disgrace of only Chaplains in public schools.

Of course things will not change much. Our Prime Minister was against the current Royal Commission in the first place, voicing fears of a witch hunt against the church he follows so enthusiastically.  A few tut tuts, and shaking of the head, promises by the church to change, but providing they get our kids for the first seven years , they will consider not harm has been done.MollyB:  The fact remains that the Church, any Church is a business.  It is based on the incredulous, yet for thousands of years has prevailed because of the human need for a crutch to get through life.  Being a business that does not pay taxes you would think that it should be brought to account, but as I said it has prevailed through the centuries although being involved in inhumane and draconian practices.

This latest abomination, so contrary to the will of the God it worships, but apparently has not the power to stop, should have its consequences.  The disbandment of the business.

The ABC gets blamed for everything these days, but if I was a parent, misguided enough to let the Church get its clutches into my child, some with devastating consequences,  I would thank all news outlets that give this matter air time.Brad: You have to be a political spin doctor. If not. you are wasting your talents.

The rest of us know that Abbott's staunch Catholic beliefs put him and odds with Islam. He voiced his thoughts, and gave the lead to his slow thinking underlings.  He should be used to embarrassing retractions.

You are probably not the only one who thinks as he does, but he is the Prime Minister, and is charged with keeping racial harmony whether he likes it or not.

Try Alan Jones, you will get a good hearing there.micka: Actually Mungo is only reporting as many enlightened Australians see things.

Abbott, you may be surprised to know occupies the supposed highest office in the land. I know, many of us cannot believe it either.

Can you imagine John Howard for example saying something as stupid as Abbott's comments, from a man charged with keeping racial harmony whilst he is going on a crusade.  Well that was a bad choice, Howard invented Muslim children in the water.

Well lets try Fraser, although he does not cut it in the Liberal party any more. I am sure Fraser would not comment that gays make him uneasy, and he wishes people would not wear burkas', or "Women of calibre" or "When women are doing the ironing", or "Sh*t happens"  But then Abbott had good teachers, Downer's "The things that batter" for example. He has outdone them all.

Mungo is really being very gentle.

Abbott should know better, so it remains to be asked, "Are we getting the best persons available to lead this country?"happy.  You will get it soon. The so called economic mess left by Labor was essentially a Liberal myth. Even most Liberals are getting it, but obviously you are still listening to  Joe and Mathias.

The old "My taxes" bit gets rolled out again, not very original.

Heard Chris Kenny last night. You know the same Chris Kenny whose wages in the main are paid by the unbiased Rupert Murdoch.  He was going on about the so called partisanship of the ABC and strongly suggested to Josh Frydenberg that he should talk to his political master to do something about it.

At least the ABC journalists, not that I call Kenny a journalist, do not publicly demean News Corp. other than of course the perfectly legitimate Media Watch.

You could hardly call Janet Albrechtsen an independent appointee. She has tried before to  bring down the ABC as a credible news organisation, but failed.  I think these  Liberal plants, once they get there realise the value of the ABC, and that criticism like yours is just frustrated guff.happy: Yoiur second last sentence indicates that you do not watch Media Watch all that often. The ABC comes in for its share of criticism too. You could not expect that it would rate the same as The Australian, or say Alan Jones which are the same so far as delivering tripe is concerned.

Would you really be happy getting your political news from publications like the Daily Telegraph?Eric: Sorry I cannot answer your question. I Will leave that research to you. Media Watch does I think keep some of the news outlets on their toes, and they way does the public a service.

If cuts to the ABC were genuine, and more or less decided on purely economical grounds, one could probably live with them. Unfortunately this government also thinks cuts to the GBR protection agency is getting too much. it there a cut more irresponsible than that?

The Abbott Government is continually giving us examples of where their priorities lay.  It is not with the environment,the less well of, or those priorities most Australians hold dear.whogo: In my mind you are being too simplistic. Abbott, being Prime Minister has a duty to the greater good.. If he was still studying in the seminary, not too many people would be surprised if he came out and expressed the beliefs he has.

Likewise if he came out and said "I believe burkas should be banned in public" and was prepared to have a debate in parliament, there is legitimacy in that.

However for the Prime minister,particularly in a time of ethnic tension, to express personal views of this nature, could and now doubt will cause further tension, even violence. Such comment is a licence for like minded nutters to be encouraged.

He does not have to lie about his views. He is a politician, and should be able to think on his feet.

Roger: Shame on you. Best you can do in this time of Liberal inertness is to tell porkies about a previous female prime minister.

Liberal prime Ministers are the masters of the "Lie". Abbot is one of their best exponents. but you know that.

As for Bishop, she has only become popular because she can talk tough on the world stage where it dose not count for much, compared to the home front.

But then she is probably as capable as any other in the Liberal party, except perhaps for Turnbull, but she has about as much chance as he.

However the main reason she will never be PM is that, do not forget, it is up to the Australian people who at this time are seriously thinking about making this government one term.Sid: To be  fair, you should include the rest of Gillard's undertakings about an ETS.  Then if you were really fair you would accept that being short of a majority precluded her from keeping that undertaking, or doing something far worse for the country, letting Abbott take power.

She may not be able to complain about the flack being received but the ordinary observer could complaint about Abbott's tactics of calling her a "Liar" every sitting day, and twice on Sundays.

Check the definition of a "Lie" and you will see that Abbott is really a "Liar", and as you say may they well pay a price for it.AGB: So if Gillard was not subjected to a campaign of lies and smears by the Murdoch press than Abbott is not subjected to the same by the ABC.  Where do you actually stand?

Actually there is not much doubt that Gillard was subjected to lies and smears by News Corp. but there is a little doubt to the rest of your conclusion.

Never mind though, well said in the cause of degrading the ABC. Keep trying and you and your fellow thinkers on the Drum, will, with the help of Chris Kenny and others on Sky news eventually give the Government courage to cut its funding further. Another act of revenge perpetrated by this Government.

But where will you then go for honest political reporting? You still have Alan Jones I suppose. Paul Murray perhaps. Chris Kenny?  Bolt?.happy: Now that is being biased. Is this Liberal train wreck any better than a Labor train wreck.  If Abbott goes under after one term, it will be a long road back.  Labor at least saved a few of the rear carriages, and they have fought back to be leading in the polls.

There is a reasonable question to be asked of the Australian people," Do you want Tony Abbott leading this country for another five years?"

The answer to that is getting more obvious every day. His burka business just adds to the list of indiscretions.custard: You just keep watching question time. It is the only place you can get any solace.  Ministers with unfettered opportunity to answer Dorothy Dixers, patting themselves on the back, a Speaker looking on with benign admiration whilst sending Labor members to the sin bin, now by the hundreds.

However you cannot hide behind the fact that you watch question time, and then claim any knowledge of what is going on in the real world of politics.

What is going on is that your adored party is going under.

Hockey and Morrison have found out that bluster and self congratulation does not work.  Abbott hopes that he can be saved by beating the National Drum. I doubt that the public are that dumb.Alfie: Please do not re write history. Passing mundane bills that equate to the day to day running of the country, is not supporting Labor legislation.

Abbott, with his thinking and beliefs still in the medieval times, resisted all new Labor initiatives, even those that would have stifled the people smuggling trade, because he wanted to do that himself.

Like the inquiry into the conduct of the Queensland Government, he is reaping the whirlwind, he so imprudently sowed.  Only a person with a stupendous lack of intelligence and foresight, not to mention abandonment of convention,could do that.mick: Gee I like that. "Every utterance of independent thought".

Probably what you should be saying is "Every time an MP looks after his/her own patch", because that is what Bishop, Brandis, and Johnston are worried about.

Well they haven't yet realised that they knifed the only person in their ranks that thinks like a normal human being.  Although even Turnbull is having difficulty sticking to political common sense surrounded by so much irrationality.whogo: I agree, but what exception is being made.? Women wearing a burka, if they decide to go into parliament house, or into the departure lounge of an airport get the metal detection treatment like anyone else.

It is unwise to raise issues of this kind at times when the government is getting all it can out of national security, and the villains are Muslims.

If the nation wants to ban the wearing of the burka, or men wearing dresses in church, or any other archaic practice let there be a national debate. The country has had enough of dog whistling causing racial hatred.Lachie: Ah, a common sense response to all those Bernardi fans.

Lets hope the grandchildren will not see the need, the same as ours are gradually realising that those beautiful limestone structures that abound our cities would be better put to housing and feeding the needy.Freddie. Smoking by the under age is not illegal. It is illegal to sell minors cigarettes.

Apart from that little correction it is generally accepted that benign governments enact laws that will save the lives of it's citizens, even if the citizens are only doing harm to themselves. Take seat belt laws for example, laws about J walking, drinking to excess, and the use of drugs.

Cigarettes are not just an issue for the individual. Although their taxes may help to pay for their hospitalisation, it is more than likely that a person has died of a heart attack, not caused by smoking because available beds are being occupied by people with cigarette related conditions.

Your argument may stand up if smokers refused all medical treatment if their health condition was caused by that by which cigarette companies declared for decades was not injurious to human health.

As for banning it. What problems would arise for those people already addicted? Our gaols would be full.

Your last line is a little cynical. In the wash up of government finances it is more than likely that the medical expenses for those in ill health through smoking, and the loss of the human resource that goes with it, outweighs the tax collected.  That is not to mention the slow,painful, lingering demise of the afflicted.You do sound such a nice guy. I would probably play golf with you and enjoy your company, even if I had to stand up wind of you whilst you imbibed.

The real issue here is, not that you have smoked for so long, and you reserve the right to do so even though your friends probably will have to attend your premature funeral, it is, do you want your children and grandchildren to have the same fate?.

It is unfortunate that you were told for years that smoking was not detrimental to your health, in other words taken in by the Marlborough man, but any responsible government has a responsibility to the younger generation.

Perhaps cigarette tax should only apply to those that have taken up smoking, being fully aware of the deleterious effects. That would exclude you.

A true story. A friend of mine was in hospital with a burst aneurysm in the leg. In the next bed was was another man with the same complaint.  My friend did not smoke, and is currently walking around. The other did, and the surgeon said it was because of this that he could not save his leg.

He was defiant, and said he was not going to give up smoking.big joe: your criticism does not stack up. Take for example the Insiders programme. There is always a guest that represents the illogical ideals of the Liberal coalition. To quote a few. Vicci Savva. Can always find an excuse foe Abbott's stuff ups. Gerard Henderson, with his forlorn look, appealing to the charity in us to also find forgiveness for them.  There are many others of course but you are not prepared to diverge from the mantra  espoused since time immemorial that the ABC is biased.

Malcolm  is being disengenuous, thinking that ABC viewers have the same intelligence as the audience of Alan Jones, or Paul Murray.

If he was serious he would try cutting the number of politicians, and see if he can sell to his compatriots that service delivery should be the same.  (No that is a bad example because there would probably be no difference.)

Turnbull uses that phrase "Taxpayers money". That is sure to get attention. Did he get from grizzlers on The Drum, or vice versa?

For mine the ABC adds to my quality of life. I have served my country well up until now, had a long working life, and paid my taxes, and resent any politician deciding to spend them elsewhere in efforts to get themselves re elected by stifling honest scrutiny.

BTW how much are they paying Janet Albrechtsen in another failed attempt to appease the LNP government.Do not expect anything but platitudes from this government over this subject whilst the terrorist debate is front and centre. Most Dorothy Dixers from the Government at question time today were on what a good job your government was doing in 'Keeping us safe"

The Minister against the environment Greg Hunt did get up and tell us that electricity providers were not only reducing their bills, but giving refunds.

Sceptics like me of course immediately thought that such largess was a pay off to the Government for having the carbon price rescinded.  Nothing is surer that in the not too distant future electricity prices will rise.

When the over rated scare of terrorism is put in the same basked as other criminal behaviour, the budget, and global warming should resume their normal places in our easily led physics.

Of course Tony Abbott will hold out a bit longer, after all the influence of George Pell is still there, but he may sooner or later come to the conclusion that he does not have some mythical power that gives him the edge over most of the rest of the world's leaders.

It will certainly take some ingenuity on his part to enter into the world of reality whilst maintaining his objections to pricing carbon.Mawson:You make some good points, but let us not get carried away. Perhaps one in 10  lawyers became so for altruistic reasons. I know a medical professional who became a surgeon because of the good he could do.

I am not sure that my day to day lifestyle depends on Lawyers. I could not afford their exorbitant fees.

Lawyer bashing is probably self defeating, but it is up to them to lift their own image, and not to be sensitive about criticism where it is due.

Apart from the good lawyers do, they also represent tobacco companies, criminal organisations, organisations that try to avoid damages resulting from paedofilia within their ranks,murderers, and in many cases work for the interests of the powerful against the weak. Not forgettig of course tax dodgers.

Perhaps it could be said they are a necessary evil.Perhaps Peta Credlin should sit for parliament. May be she has brains, she certainly seems to be the brains behind Abbott. She must despair at all of his mumblings and stumblings. At least with her as PM we would know that no one is pulling her strings.

Trouble is that if she did win a seat she would never get on the front bench. One woman is already there, and Julie could not stand the competition.True Liberal: I can understand your despondency, and I am not a Liberal supporter.  Funny thing the only time I was delusional enough to vote liberal was for Malcolm Fraser. Now Malcolm Fraser is Abbott's worst critic.

The past Labor governments were a schemozzle over internal matters, but it unrealistic to accuse them of having no policies.

Plain packaging, reasonable paid  maternity leave, pricing carbon pollution, Mmrt,Ndis, Gonski, Nbn, plain packaging, among others were all solid Labor initiatives.

Internal bickering, and a negative opposition detracted from the legacy of the Rudd Gillard government, but after 12 months the LNP have not one new policy. They have a direction though, and that is keeping with their born to rule mentality, usually at the expense of those who are as they would have it,are a blight on the prosperity of our society.RobP: Good one. Won't work though. You are naturally dissatisfied, probably disgusted with the Government you voted in. Yours best way to save face is to make the observation that the Labor opposition is just as bad.

A coalition of the Liberals and Nationals won the last election. They are the "Adults in charge".

Congratulations though on your observation that the LNP are not fit to govern.
