I think you need leave the biblical times and visit the events in question.

Housing was shooting through the roof until the "recession we had to have" under Keating. 

It stayed that way for quite some time; Keating was lucky to win the "unwinable" election in 1993.Yes, Abbott should abdicate that UN position forthwith and stop talking to Putin in case he gets gobbled up.

You will write him a letter of advice along those lines won't you?
Think you are being a little petulant. Russia's GDP is only 30% greater than ours with  close to seven times our population; we are hardly insignificant economically.

PM Abbott, quite rightly, was leading our cause for our dead and hardly going toe to toe or acting on behalf of the US. Putin, to his credit, also responded positively. He himself commented we should work closer together over such a diabolical event.

BTW Annabel is not reporting; she is writing her views with great flair and perspicacity in my opinion. If you don't like her work ? well, you know what to do.

Hard to keep up with you and the double emphasis of your point in one day ? see below. Now you have written twice on Drum!! Congratulations (just light humour).
Love your pieces; eloquent and insightful.

Will disagree with Putin being the 'devil.' Biden perhaps should have reflected on the retort as meaning 'likewise' especially given the US position on Iraq and the Palestinians.

As Putin rightly retorted to Dubbya that he hoped he was not suggesting more democracy along the Iraq lines for Russia.

Truth is neither Putin nor his rebel lackeys could have imagined shooting down a passenger airline (if they did it).

PM Abbott got it right the first time; baddies and baddies. Rudd, despite his self adulation, did not achieve as much internationally in his whole tenure as has Abbott in the short period he has been in office. This is quite apart from this event but is evidenced by the trade agreements and positive engagement with the Asian neighbours, despite spying scandals and turning back the boats.
Lol... very good Gorden. You gave me a good belly laugh with your "error" quip!

I love Annabel's pieces - very refreshing.Oh, I hadn't heard that Conroy et al were going to pay back the billions in losses.

The only ones who own that NBN fiasco are the Australian people. Hey that's us!!Am afraid Telstra is not an Alan Bond moment. About the only people who thought NBN could make a profit were Rudd/Conroy/Albo and rusted ons.

On the other hand, if the Govt pays Telstra many, many $billions to take it off its hands it may be a proposition.
Nearly twelve months in and we can make some assessment and comparison. I voted for Ms Gillard and after the first year I was disappointed; I voted for Abbott and thus far am happy with progress.

Simple as he had four key issues to address. This is my take on the performance.

1. Stop the boats; with over 99% reduction in boat arrivals this has been achieved.

2. Scrap the CO2 tax; achieved despite Labor/Greens wanting to bring back this industry killing gorilla.

3. Infrastructure build; there are over ten projects being implemented according to Fact Check. Does Labor still have plans to move the Naval base?
   
4. Bring the Budget to surplus; plans outlined are comforting. Some yearn for the Swannee days of perennial deficits and debt despite the oft promised surpluses. I would rather bank on Abbott/Hockey delivering in due course.

By and large the rest is just day to day business of governing but I would have thought Hockey's strategic vision of a much expanded medical research effort would have attracted admirers. I see little on these pages.
Well Michael, I am glad that now I can put a name to the painful, daily spin sprouted by Ms Gillard and team.

But I agree with your final conclusion ?to what matters: progress in living standards and jobs.?

As long as Bill Shorten sticks to the old policies he is a gonner. Never mind the polls, never mind the angst, it's the living standards and jobs; the CO2 toxic tax or ETS, a tax by a fancy name, will not help Oz!

Have a nice day.
Really?

I remember the four key ones he championed strongly. Correct me if I am wrong; stop the boats, get rid of the toxic CO2 tax, strengthen the budget and build infrastructure.

Seems to me he has an excellent record on these key areas in just ten months in office by any objective evaluation.

Hi bobtonnor:

I suggested any objective evaluation not some screw loose absolutist vision.

Can you name the boats that have come to our shores! None that I have heard of! Brilliant record compared to Labor and in line with the details of what was specifically stated viz. to achieve Howard's record.
As for the numbers compare the before and after; greater than 99\% reduction.

2. I don't know what Whyalla or legs of lamb have got to do with the promise. I do know our industry was going to be affected such that Treasury forecasts were for a 1.5% reduction in GDP as a result of the CO2 tax in due course. On my reckoning that equates to over 200,000 jobs lost. Any idea of how you were going to prevent that?

3. Budget ? what objective measure are you using for your conclusion.

4. If you go to fact checker there are at least ten significant infrastructure programs in progress. In your absolutist mind this is considered failure until the cement dries. Most people would consider that the promise is ongoing and being kept.That would be because you don't understand where and what that tax would hit.

Perhaps you can answer the same question I posed above.

"I do know our industry was going to be affected such that Treasury forecasts were for a 1.5% reduction in GDP as a result of the CO2 tax in due course. On my reckoning that equates to over 200,000 jobs lost."

Any idea of how you were going to prevent that? 

Specifically answer how u would stop the total closure of the aluminium industry where about 17 tonne of CO2 is released per tonne of Al or what you would do about cement which generates half its CO2 as an intrinsic part of the chemistry involved.



You are in a generous mood today.

Generous in that Ms Gillard only broke one promise; we can't count obviously. Generous in that you would oust the Coalition for only six terms; very generous for a Monday morning thought.

The real Ms Gillard lost her popularity for leading an incompetent Govt that could never deliver on the promised Budget surplus fiasco for a start. Rudd came charging to the rescue firing blanks yet he had thoughts of staying on. 

Both delusional and you wonder why the electorate tired of Labor.
Right you are, Alpo.

Seeing you are in a generous mood and so sure about the result next election can I count on you giving me 10/1 odds. I will settle for 5/1.

Cmon, show you are a are you a man of your convictions. The difference between us is that I don't care who wins as I feel comfortable we will get it right and in our interests. 

It won't be Labor if they want to stick to their old policies like bringing back the CO2 tax or ETS which is still a tax by another name.Julia Gillard was not obliged to introduce a CO2 tax. Bob Brown did not insist on it as a condition of the alliance; Ms Gillard volunteered it. The Independents were never going to back Abbott; the chance of an early election under him was too high.

Had she stuck to her original election proposal she would not have earned such opprobrium. Her failures go far deeper. Losing her popularity has more to do with which ?Julia? are we seeing than the tax alone I suggest. Her whole Govt was a daily, spin doctored failure and one only need look at the Budget surplus fiascos to get an idea of the key problems.
Greg, I am so glad that you are not an advisor to Govt. Cherry picked comparisons are quite useless. We were never in the deep trouble that the US has been which is to hell and coming back. 

Our banks and institutions were not caught up in the causes of the GFC. Our relatively small economy was buffered by China's size and growth. 

We had the best terms of trade ever. We started with zero net debt and balanced budgets. So to have gyrated from a 4% unemployment to a 6.4% now is diabolical in anyone's language. Equally so with the budget deficits.

Ask yourself what the clowns in the previous Govt did to shore up this manna from heaven. In one word zilch! They squandered it. Chasing auto makers with chequebook golden handshakes to depart our shores as happened with Ford and would have happened with GMH if allowed to, introducing job destroying CO2 taxes and RET, frivolously spending money that was not there was hardly the route to robust employment prospects or a better economy.

Those same clowns ought to get out of the way for a while to allow some positive restructuring.
Sounds good!

Trouble is the people in the know would have left by the time the collapse occurs.We are all sad. It is understandable how emotions run high. But, we will get a lot further working with Govts than to run ahead of them.

Everything seems to point to the Rebels. Whatever we feel, Putin could never have imagined a commercial airliner being blown up. From the radio messages even they (who?) were were dismayed at it being purely a commercial airline.

Our Govt is handling it well and Putin's latest response seems ameliorative. Assuming it was the Rebels with Russian missiles, we won't forget. We won't let Putin off the hook but quiet, large protests would be better than highly strindent ones if he comes here.

This is a period of mourning but be careful how we treat Putin. He can equally ask us to look in the mirror over Iraq. We invaded a prosperous country; we left it devastated with over a million dead.
Lisa,
Er... slight exaggeration if you ignore ENSO and decide by assumption it is GHG. The sun does play a part somewhere or is it now an insignificant part of the equation.

But you are free to tell us about how ENSO is affected by GHG and why the models are hopeless in in this area.Dr Who,
I am still waiting on some answers from you viz clear hypothesis and how your ?heat? is supposed to make the earth warmer.

I still have you as the only one on my list of ?wet behind, and thick between, the ears;? You continue to be a source of mirth and bemusement. CO2 is just great for growing cannabis and food. In fact without it we would be dead.

I have no idea who ?taswegian? is but I will let you go chase your tail and tell me about it. I have been on your wild goose chases before where you can't tell the difference between empirical evidence and model output.

Thus far over 97% of models fail and do so miserably.Dr Who:
Have you actually read that paper or do you do the usual and pretend to understand something about it by reading the abstract without questioning the detail. Sure the title sounds nice; now feel the quality.

Just one of the authors ? Lewandowsky - should have been cause for alarm except he seems to be one of your heroes.

Do you have any understanding of what ?bias? means in statistics. I suggest you take Lewandowsky with you to a casino and get him to do his statistical tests on roulette wheels. He will then be able to convince you of a perfect system to win there using the same technique on a pattern which will evolve with one or more wheels. Good luck with your futility.

And no I am not going to pay $32 for that junk but got enough out of it from the diagrams and abstract. I suggest you do a course in Probability and Statistics.
This whole discussion presupposes we can do anything much about climate via a limited CO2 route.

I figure that jumping up and down hard on a bike that is broken isn't going to get one far. I would not expend one joule of energy on such a bike; not one cent on mitigation of CO2. The so called GHG climate change in the earth system is a broken bike.

This is a quite different issue to environmental protection. 
Perhaps you should go check on magma flows given the West Antarctica sits on the rim of fire. You should also check that the TOTAL ice extent is at its greatest since satellite records began and not some tucking nonsense.

If you believe the oceans are acidified or that we have had more extreme weather events perhaps you are living pre pH measures.

I don't know about asthma but do know about the fiasco of frog extinctions claims also attributed to climate change. Total nonsense as real science showed it was due to a fungus. Of course real science was not allowed to progressfor some time while deferring to the crap put out by climate change.
sjack, 
when scientists just carry on with the business of science it may have little interest directly to the electorate so perhaps you are right. Most will be happy to leave the scientists alone whether they are  right or wrong in the quest for knowledge.

When scientists wish to tamper with the very fabric of our economic development it requires more than a cursory suggestion that we should accept the views of scientists. Not only is your appeal to authority argument invalid in science it is an abdication of civil responsibility in this instance.

I put it to you that in your work you do not simply accept a hypothesis. You try ardently to put it to the  test in a scientific manner whether it be by direct observation or prediction in a quantified way to 5 sigma given the current measurement constraints. This is standard science.

Try and find a falsifiable hypothesis in this climate CAGW field. Try and find any real experimentation on any hypothesis other than the failed models. 

This is what makes us skeptics. There is no ideology in this skepticism other than asking for the scientific method to be followed ala Popper/ Feynman.

This is quite apart from the litany of shenanigans that have plagued this field.
Clarke:
Well you seem to fall into the trap of more appeal to authority. Not very bright. Bad science is just bad science.

Peer review is not a prerequisite to the scientific method. Even so your reference to it is another poor appeal to authority made more acute by the sudden withdrawal of 65 science papers in the last week in one swoop.
Stick to addressing the actual issues raised if you can. I see nothing in your verbiage addressing the issues I raised.

I suggest you consult Carl Sagan's Baloney Detection Kit freely available on the net. It is designed to help people sort out silly arguments.Rachel:
I suggest you are not looking too hard if can't discern an appeal to authority given the statement that unless you are in that field you should shut up. I don't see it as appropriate when a) the public is asked to make multi billion $ decisions and b) the comments were mainly factual.

The purpose of my reference to Popper/Feynman is that it is clear what science I am talking about. There are many versions of the word ?science? such as political, social science.

For example, I suggest Dr Mann does not hold to the Popper/Feynman view saying ?Proof is for mathematical theorems and alcoholic beverages. It?s not for science.? 
In a strict sense he is correct, of course, as nothing is provable in absolute terms and in science it is never taken as such. But he then goes on to say all you need is ?credible theory?  and ?best explanation.? I might ask ?according to whom?? Perhaps the next story teller or your friendly ?pal reviewer? or you after a tiff with your wife's best friend. Never subject it to any empirical testing.

I suggest that approach is a prime candidate for Feynman's cargo cult science.

What do you mean it can be falsified? It can only be falsified if the falsifiable hypothesis is stated clearly in a quantified way and accepted as such. Any credible scientist will have already falsified it by the empirical evidence, yet it lingers on with greater confidence according to the IPCC despite greater failures.

Let me explain. 

Hansen has claimed the physics to be exact. He put forward forecasts based on various scenarios of CO2 emissions. The predictions have failed miserably when mapped against the actual CO2 increases.

Further,  over 100 models are way out in terms of the T metric where over 97% fail miserably.

What further evidence does one need for falsification? Reminds me of Michelson and Morely; they weren't listened to despite their brilliant experiments which falsified the aether theory.

Come now you can't compare Haley's Comet, the physics involved and the fact that  it has been replicated before as a guide to confidence in scientist predictions in general. If a doctor or scientist fails in the last 10 events would you feel confident in him next time? I can only speak for myself; I would not.Rachel70
If it is hard science please state:
a) the clear falsifiable hypothesis in quantified form
b) show the controlled, replicable experimental evidence to support it (by that I obviously mean  the predictions based on such a hypothesis).

Your argument assumes it is right. It has never been shown to hold. For a start the assumed positive, highly sensitive H2O feedback, which is the main component of alarmist proposals, has not been shown to be happening. If anything it is may be more likely to be negative via cloud albedo.

But I leave it to you to show me otherwise as you claim it has been established.

The physics of CO2 enclosed in a container has been well  known for ages. It is an entirely different  proposition when it forms a minuscule part of a complex, buffered system of interaction trying to move to equilibrium. Most of the heat shunted from the surface into the atmosphere is not via radiation anyway.

The issue for society is not simply that there may be an effect. It is very much about the quantum as it clearly affects multi trillion dollar decisions. The error level in this area is considerable and yet the models still can't perform

I liked your example of your seventh house of Leo. That is precisely what is put to society; just about anything and everything is due to climate change according to the experts.  Right you are. This is now called hard science according to you.
There has been less warming in the nearly 70 years from 1945 to now than in the shorter 35 year period 1910 to 1945 when the IPCC say man was not really  involved.
Source Hadcrut3 var adj global mean

Happy now?Sara,
Part of the ideological problem is that people like you believe the electorate does not understand this issue.

Oh it understand it very, very clearly I suggest.

Rather your piece shows that it is you who doesn't understand. It is not the impact on July 1, 2012 or this year while there is compensation galore in the system rather it is the strategic implications long term with the loss of industry.

A tax is a tax by any name if it is an obligatory payment to a Govt. The elctorate was under no illusion as to what it wanted. Perhaps you should respect the view. Argue all you like, but if you claim ignorance on the part of the electorate it reflects more on your own.JessC
You may indeed be right about fund allocations. Not sure it would mean much now if no cars are to be made here. 

Auto efficiencies mainly happened because they were mandated.
 
That is not such a bad approach if ever it becomes necessary; industries must meet certain standards rather than simply be left with a monkey on their back or go broke.
 
Palmer is an interesting character with an each way bet as you rightly point out. He doesn't want a CO2 tax but is well positioned should all the majors go down that route which basically would force us to join. Gore is a billionaire from CAGW; Palmer is certainly aware.

Despite NOAA just releasing a climate model about our south west Australia being drier due to GHG, a study two years ago actually showed it was mainly due to chopping down the very tall trees (100m+) up until 1980. So Abbott's plan may not be so silly if they plant and let them grow to 100m+ at least as far as rain is concerned there.
Depends which data source you want to use.

The RSS satellite data shows a definite decline.

Most site data is adjusted. NOAA introduced over 100 pristine sites in 2005 in the US. These are not adjusted and clearly show a decline in T too.

The IPCC also accepts there has been a hiatus.

So rather than call people "stupid lying jerks" just quote your source and tell us if the data has been adjusted and by how much and whether any allowance has been made for UHI effect.

In case you miss the point, CO2 has gone on increasing while T has not and that is the issue that can't be explained by the alarmist hypothesis. 
Well if you cherry pick RSS ?upper troposphere? and then claim it to be ?lower troposphere temperature? and then compare it over three decades when you were clearly talking about the period since 1998 then I think we can clearly discern who is being deceptive.

The RSS MSU Lower Troposphere Global Mean has reduced by at least 0.3C since 1998.

If you actually go to the RSS site and browse through their ?time series trend? it is quite clear in fig 5.

No one has ever disputed that T has gone up since the late seventies which you are now trying to conflate with the hiatus period.Ever considered that ultimately we will own his failures or successes. Perhaps it may be wise not to pray too strongly for catastrophe.Greg, its nice and interesting to play with words and statistics and then show that the world did not end with the carbon tax.

Now how about addressing the official version from Treasury that Oz will reduce its GDP in due course by 1.5% as a result of that CO2 tax. I figure that will be in excess of 200,000 jobs lost.

While you are at it tell me what proportion of the aluminium industry or cement industry or iron will be left once the screws are tightened under the scheme and CO2 subsidies removed. 

This gets closer to the truth. Govts should be thinking long term not simply one day on July 1, 2012.

A lot of water has passed under the bridge since the Turnbull agreement with Labor including Copenhagen, the T hiatus, Climategate and basically that the climate science is indeed crap as PM Abbott remarked.Perhaps Joan is quite rightly explaining that the effect on T by these massive job losses will amount to about zilch.

I endorse her views entirely.

It is a fact that the CO2 tax is costing billions and is projected to drop our GDP by 1.5% relatively. In my reckoning that will be over 200K jobs lost.

Now, perhaps you could tell us what effect this will have on global T. Certainly don't rely on the failed climate models for guidance.
Sure it could; under the relentless Labor deceit. I don't see much change.Thinking voters were well aware of the polls.

Where do you fit?Lisa,
Not totally sure you are correct about concentration of CO2 as England had severe taxes for CO2 exceeding certain levels in the 19th century. These were measured to within 3% error.

The levels measured then were much higher than the current claimed 280ppm. John has made similar comments. Most skeptics do accept there has been some increase.

The properties of CO2 absorption/emission are well documented. But that is a far cry from the jump to a complex system where most of the surface energy is shunted into the atmosphere by other than radiation where CO2 is a two bit player.

The highly sensitive positive feedback from water vapour is not shown to hold. This is where most of the warming is supposed to occur. If anything it is a negative effect from higher moisture in the lower troposphere. The higher troposphere does not show the predicted hotspot at all.

What you are putting forward is a lot of generalisation which is purely speculative as ultimately the system has not behaved according to the alarmist hypothesis no matter what period you study.

Lisa this is an ideal time for any warmist to put the hypothesis to the test. We go to Alice Springs and construct two huge swimming pool size containers  about 5 metres up in the air bounded by IR transparent film. In one we pour in the CO2 ? make it 50% so there can be no room for error.

All warmers are to sleep in their swimming gear only under the CO2 container ? suitably separated. There, you  tell us how snug you were being warmed by the back-radiation of CO2.  Yeh, we will throw thermometers all over the place just to make it even more scientific.

Why are these experiments not carried out?
There are some pretty expensive desal plants, built on the on the east coast last decade, sitting idly and costing a mint just to count the time of the day. These were all based on the predictions of climate change.

No sooner had flim flam Flannery told us not to expect the rivers to run or the dams to fill again there were some of the biggest floods for decades. Meanwhile draw as much comfort as you want from the desal plants.

If that was the only type of penalty I would wear it. Problem is it is an all encompassing scam having fundamental strategic, financial and power changes imposed on the world. Cui bono - follow the money and start with the UN which gets tithes from the CO2 tax.

I'd be pushing hard too if I was promised the same rewards.
Not sure how it will develop cleaner cars when the CO2 tax does not apply to fuel for vehicles.

The current system of CO2 tax achieves nothing on ?climate change mitigation.?

We send 10% of that CO2 tax to the UN! 

In the tax loop and with tighter screws in due course the end result is loss of industry.

It will reduce our GDP by 1.5% or about 200,000 jobs in due course.
The new plan under Abbott will achieve the same outcome on climate, meaning NOTHING.

It will preserve those jobs. He may be enriching the companies but I figure there is more scope for a benefit than by enriching the UN where I see none.
Much has happened since Howard's quote. We had the hockey stick fiasco, hide the decline Climategate and other implications including Jones vowing to act as gatekeeper by preventing adverse peer review publication. Peer review can suffer from questionable if not totally unethical practices. Even so the peer review process is NOT a prerequisite for the scientific method.

Polar bears still enjoy Arctic ice contrary to Gore/some scientist claims,  Tuvulu is still there, Manhatten is not under water, the Maldives are still open for business with an added airport, Antarctic ice extent in now the greatest since satellite records started so the Emperor penguins are happy and so on. 

Science is supposed to be judged by empirical evidence of experimentation or predictions based on a hypothesis. That alarmist hypothesis has failed and failed miserably with all their failed specific predictions but more clearly the avg T metric has remained constant since Howard's comment of 1997. In fact using RSS satellite data T has clearly declined.

Hansen's avg T predictions have failed despite his claim of exact physics to determine the hypothesis. Over 97% of climate models have failed miserably too diverging more and more from reality

Your use of emotional statements like ?devoted their lives? etc its revfealing. Religious fanatics devote their lives too. Devotion has little to do with empirical evidence.

You make outlandish claims like ?vested interest and big money.? I suggest you show your evidence as it is estimated that over $1 billion a day is spent in the warmist camp. Most of the debunking has come from unfunded private individuals. Steve McIntyre is not even a scientist but smashed the nonsense of the Hockey stick and Lewandowsky. Imagine if some real scientists were funded in the nay camp; I doubt whether this scam could last a year.

On the money side you might be surprised at some of the vested interests like Gore with Enron, Shell actually pushing for subsidies on renewables and the list goes on. Gore has become a billionaire over this scam. Start with the UN whose charter is to promote this scam. It receives 10% of our CO2 taxes. Nice if you can get it. The scientists are two bit players, mainly working for a pittance, in the overall strategic money thrust of vested interests who want to maintain the scare.

I don't know where you source your information but the little remaining competitive manufacturing is certainly under threat with the reverse tariffs of a CO2 tax. Aluminium which is mainly exported would have no future with about 17 tonne of CO2 for every tonne of Al produced. Of the CO2 emitted in cement manufacturing about half is intrinsically a part of the chemistry involved.

You cling to examples and quote China without acknowledging that they are now the largest emitter of CO2. It has NOT committed to reduce CO2 by even one tonne from present levels. 
Tiresias:
You clearly do not understand the issues. Go read the Wegeman report. Go read McIntyre. This tackles the technical incompetence. The IPCC has been more than happy to let it die never mentioning it again.

Climategate is not hoo-haa when Jones declares he will tamper with peer review if he has to. It is a litany of peer review tampering and manipulation including the removal of an editor.  According to Donna Laframboise, they even controlled editorial positions at the Journal of Climate.

The whitewash narrow terms of reference investigations you refer to add nothing to the understanding these issues.

As for Antarctica you should read further. I stand by what the data says and throwing in the west Antarctica is just a furfy if you understand it is on the rim of fire. But do tell me about how the new ice grows and increases total area but your new science says there is less of it.

Have you been down there to measure that the colder water is actually melting and thinning it? We can't measure it accurately but you somehow think that you can and have.
Tiresias
I missed your comment on China. Again if you are going to criticise you should try to be accurate.

Did I say China is doing nothing about emissions? No I did not. I said it has no commitment to reduce CO2 by even one tonne from today's levels despite being the largest emitter.

It does want more controls because of smog/health factors which are not directly related to CO2. I stand by my statement.This gave me a good laugh and exemplifies the absurdities of this so called science that captivates Ian so much.

There is a new paper just released by NOAA scientists using a new climate model saying:
?The drying is most severe over southwest Australia where the model forecasts a 40 percent decline in average rainfall by the late 21st century.?

Of course this is all premised on GHG causation (+ ozone). Pity these clowns did not do a search as a paper was released some two years ago finding that this decline was due to man made changes and not GHG. In a nutshell the destruction of the very tall trees (100m+) led to this decline. Made a lot of sense as it reduced moisture and certain nucleating chemicals released by those very tall trees as well as altering other variables.

So Perth, which is to be? Plant and let trees get to 100 m plus as Abbott wants or reduce CO2 cos the scientists can't make up their minds. We need the CO2 to make the trees grow faster! Just send the funding to my home address in Perth.

If anyone is interested in the two year old study Google ?Land clearing caused drop in rainfall in South West of Australia? at JoNova's site which gives a neat summary.

The irony is that NOAA intend using Oz to validate its model. Yeah, complete with confirmation bias before it starts. As they say:
?The study of Australian drought helps to validate this new model, and thus builds confidence in this model for ongoing studies of North American drought.?
Wining Pom:

Old you say. Hardly old if we are still in that period. Using RSS satellite data it is now at least an 18year pause.

Great stuff this CO2. Great for plants and hence food growth. They also need less water to grow.

Great for climate too; CO2 goes to sleep and takes unpaid holidays for at least 17 years just when the porridge is at the right temperature.


Dr Who,
I have a list called ?wet behind the ears and thick between them.?
Given experience with you have made it naturally to the top of the list. You are lonely there as no one else has made it. But I always get a laugh out of you.

Hansen's so called exact physics has been falsified by the results. Over 97% of model runs fail in practice. That's empirical evidence. 

Not good enough for you? 

I don't think you understand the scientific method given the limp absurd hypothesis you posed for this subject. At least Hansen had the guts to put up a falsifiable one whereas you could not even distinguish cause and effect with yours.

Here, you now have third chance to state clearly the falsifiable, quantifiable hypothesis.

As for integrity perhaps you should be a little more introspective?  Do I need to remind you of the cherry picked lack of integrity you displayed re an Arctic write up.
Lisa,
I suggest you go and look up peer reviewed literature om the subject. which specifically addresses lower water requirements.

Do you think all the water is required solely for photosynthesis?Lisa Meredith:
Apologies Lisa as I was not quite clear and now understand your objection. I meant to say that there is a lower water requirement per unit of plant production or growth.

Of course you would know that H2O is not restricted to photosynthesis.
Yank:

He is not wrong at all. Just depends how and to what degree.

He is also not wrong when he said climate science is crap.Wake up Burt. Most of the warming is supposed to come for the highly sensitive feedback from water vapour. No carbon and no semantics there as it is just not happening.

Dead as a dodo!Hansen's so called exact physics has been falsified by the results.  Over 97% of model runs fail in practice. That's empirical evidence. Not good enough for you?
If you are going to use appeal to authority argument, which has no validity in science, then perhaps you can explain why the Australian Geologic Society withdrew even its mild support statement for CAGW.

Would it have anything to do with the majority of the wider GSA membership not supporting CAGW?  Even the Royal Society was forced to modify its statement by its members.

Why are there former NASA scientists openly declaring their opposition to CAGW?  Many NASA astronauts also doubt it. Why do thousands of scientists not support CAGW hypothesis?

You would not need any fabricated, wobbly, non specific surveys if the science was there. The only authority in science is the empirical evidence and that has gone AWOL, if it was ever present.

Hansen's so called exact physics has been falsified by the results.  Over 97% of model runs fail in practice. That's empirical evidence of a failed hypothesis.

Why would anyone be surprised if there was 100% agreement if the cardinals of a church were asked a general question on their faith.
Have a look at Hansen's papers and forecasts. He claimed the physics to be exact. His forecast\s have failed badly under the CO2 levels we have in the atmosphere. What don't you understand? 

The models are runs. They may have been calibrated on historical data which is not a test of anything. They made certain projections at various stages. Over 97% are running too hot and have failed miserably. What don't you understand here?

Please don't use some lame duck excuse that these are just projections and should not be measured against reality. This is what they propose with which we are to make multi trillion $ decisions on world economies. Either we have science which is testable or it is junk, cargo cult science.

"I will direct all climate modeling groups to either start paying attention to the observations, or else" said N. Korea's Kim Jong-un. Even he is disturbed by the implications :)
People live on submarines with over ten times the CO2 levels we have in our atmosphere.Gday Rusty,
Save me the trouble and tell me; I will believe you.

"We try to keep CO2 levels in our U.S. Navy submarines no higher than 8,000 parts per million, about 20 time current atmospheric levels. Few adverse effects are observed at even higher levels. ? Senate testimony of Dr. William Happer"

But we are not suggesting we get anywhere near those levels on the planet surface are we?CO2 is not a pollutant at the levels we talk about. It and warmth are beneficial in growing more food with less water.

There are ways to minimise other emissions which I imagine is the issue you raise.
Kerry:
No theory here, just hypothesis which has been falsified by the empirical evidence.

Hansen's exact physics predictions failed. Over 97% of models failed.

Whether you take the last 17 years or last 70 years or last 140 years the CO2 sensitivity does not show up as proposed by the alarmist hypothesis.

BTW I am surprised you don't recall the climatologists' claim of a pending ice age in the 70's.Clarke:
In science the empirical evidence does the talking not the hand-waving and an appeal to authority that you posit. It is meaningless.

I have answered you earlier in terms of falsified hypothesis in Hansen's work and the dismal failure of over 97% of model runs.

The empirical evidence is that the supposed high overall CO2 sensitivity is just not there.

Go lookup the paper below where it shows far lower sensitivity than claimed by the IPCC/Hansen and confirms earlier papers from other climatologists.

Estimation of the climate feedback parameter by using radiative fluxes from CERES EBAF
P.?Bj?rnbomKerry:
I did not hear of it then - not unusual as I had little interest in the subject. Fears of an ice age made the front cover of the Times magazine around 1974. I was only curious given that you were familiar with the warming part as I have seen some comments with fearful memories of a possible ice age.

In science the empirical evidence does the talking not the hand-waving and an appeal to authority and faith in the system nor consensus that you posit.

I have given you that empirical evidence which  runs contrary to the metric of the central alarmist hypothesis of CAGW. Localised regions can certainly be affected differently under varied conditions as you suggest.
Cmon Henry,
Of course the Libs have a more cost effective solution. None of the plans do anything for T. Just that the Libs have a lower cost of achieving nothing.

Wonder how we got to this stage? History will have some fun writing about it.
Blzbob
I realise there are guys in white lab coats pretending they know something about climate and how to control is a chimera but do you need to misrepresent what they say as well.

The sensitivity due to CO2 doubling is only about 1C.  This is basic climatology 101. Keep up.

This is supposed to result in a highly sensitive positive feedback via increased water vapour in the atmosphere which is supposed to be catastrophic. Water is by far the most important GHG and is always in the atmosphere. It swamps CO2.

The empirical evidence is that it is not happening. There is no catastrophe happening at all. Science is supposed to be about empirical evidence not thought bubbles. It would be nice if they tried to follow the scientific method.Really, would that include the history at Amberley and Rutherglen.

Just that there is a current stouch as to how a static or cooling period over 100 years can turn into a homogenised, pasteurised T increase of about 1.8C in the hands of BOM for these sites.

No doubt you can tell us why when CO2 has increased continuously for the last 70 years the only increase in T happened in ENSO dominated period of about 1978 to 1998.

Blzbob,

No, but rather than just guessing and give us a simplistic critique perhaps you would gain by buying a book by Bob Tisdale. Now that is a nice name "Bob" that you share so parting with $5 is not so dire. Perhaps you might google him; I don't gain anything.Well you had better show us where this ?forcing? has been proved in our earth system.

Just that we seem to be pumping out a very lazy, human form of CO2 that doesn't want to do any of this work.
 
The last 70 years,  since the war, shows marked CO2 increases. Yet, T has only increased as a  block in 20 of those years contiguous with two reducing or static T totalling 50 years.  Further that 20 year period is marked by strong ENSO and ADO effects which has peanuts do with CO2. Even  the IPCC does not suggest it relates exclusively to CO2.

I would not pay this CO2 worker; very lazy sod indeed akin to an arthritic crock.
Alpo, 
I asked for empirical evidence in our earth system not a reading list which is just supposition.

There is no mechanism for what you say at all. Back radiation cannot even penetrate the surface of water and you talk of absurdities in warming its surface. ENSO is not a surface heating phenomenon!

Ironically if the surface alone was heated, as you say, it would result in more evaporation and cooling through phase changes and convection putting an end to your "surface" ENSO.

I suggest you go and learn a bit about it.Alumina is not aluminium and uses a fraction of the total power used for the metal Al. It too can be exported.

I don't know the Alcan particulars but the Al industry does suffer from the RET compulsion which adds to its costs. Most of our Al is exported and is a major industry which does not receive subsidies.

In any case with the removal of the CO2 tax it has taken that insurmountable long term  burden off the industry which generates about 17 tonne of CO2 for every tonne of Al metal.
What's your problem with climate change. Difficulty breathing?? Climate has always changed. I do note that there are no official changes to the climate classifications around the world. Why is this if climate is in "emergency."

Perhaps it is a placebo effect you are experiencing.

As for trees, the planet is actually greening! Further, a published study some two years ago showed we had reduced the rainfall in the south west  of WA primarily as a result of chopping down the very tall trees (100m) until 1980. Yet NOAA has some new models claiming this is due to CO2 and going to apply it to the US. Confirmation bias before they even start. 

Perhaps PM Abbott does know more than some climatologists. Perhaps he got it right when he said climate science is crap. Perhaps it is having an effect already as T has stayed static for 17 years.
We have waited decades and decades: no changes! 

Oh and would those 'emergency' projections be the 97% failed ones in the models? Perhaps you are referring to the Hansen inferred hypothesis and predictions which have failed too.

Re your house you are confusing energy sources. Try getting your house hotter by flooding it with CO2 and report back.
The evidence does not support the alarmist claims. Real science has empirical evidence to rely on which supports a hypothesis.

Alarmist global warming claims to  be a  ?science ? is like an failed, arthritic crock claiming a right to run in the Melbourne cup. It's only credentials are it has four legs replete with race failure for hacks.

And that applies to all those arthritic. failed climate models predicting dire consequences. They have all failed miserably. Never got a start. Alarmist hypotheses falsified. All crocks. Just alarmist junk, cargo cult science.

Add that to the Hansen inferred alarmist hypothesis which is also falsified by the empirical evidence and that says all one to need to know. Look for your Melbourne Cup winner elsewhere!

Yet this writer asks us to pay for this junk; to subsidise the likes of Shell and oil majors and other rent seekers (yes, oil companies!!). Cui bono. Start with the UN ? it get tithes from our CO2 taxes.When were you promised a DD?Please, hopefully we have fewer such successes; its too expensive!

It would be better to bring GMH/Ford/Toyota back; at least we could see some real manufacturing for our $ billions in subsidies. Sure, we do see the imported windmills dotting the green landscape; very nice! Van Gogh would could have painted them yellow.Greig:

In case you have not realised it but direct subsidies or indirect via tariff walls have been coming down in Oz since the mid 80's.

Just because the economy has been opened up is not then taken as licence to proclaim a totally open system.. Anti trust laws for example were in existence in the US with us following some thirty years later. Govts and its people have a right to determine how businesses operate.Dr Who:
Don't worry about what you may have thought. You problem is that you don't think clearly very often. I have said this to you before. That is why you are the only person on my special list.

I'm sure you will improve immensely by following your idol Lewandowsky.

Similarly, you don't think when you interpret my comment to suggest I  believe that auto subsidies were an example of well spent subsidies. Au contraire it was a comparative reference and hardly an endorsement. Read clearly in context and think! You might get it.
These sorts of articles are highly misleading on two grounds; who benefits and pays and what objective is achieved.

The claim is it does something on climate change. Other than assertions there is not a scintilla of evidence for this at all. When the Chief Scientist of Australia was asked what would our CO2 tax would  achieve in terms of T his answer was simply that he did not know; even less relevant are renewables. 

This writer could always try to give us the evidence (or lack) for her assertion. One wonders why no such evidence is forthcoming.

Renewable energy programs have always cost the taxpayers money in various ways including increased power costs. If they are so good why the need to subsidise them. No one is preventing investments in this area. The main reason for these sort of articles is that they want such benefits perpetuated at the expense of taxpayers. 

There are more needy areas of society where such subsidies could be put to better use. Au contraire, it is indeed the consumer and taxpayer who will benefit from ceasing to subsidise this area.

I should have looked at who the writer works for; the position taken is self explanatory.There you go, you have answered it for us all. No need for further subsidies. End of the gravy train.

No one is standing in the way of people who wish to "invest" in renewables. Go right ahead, minus any subsidies. Plow all your super into it.

I'm sure they will be great earners especially as they operate at about 17% efficiency in Germany.
RTZ...
No one denies absorption and emission of radiation by CO2. You should question whether it can hold on to this energy when you say the atmosphere ?retains it.? It can't. But that is not the sole  issue.

CO2 is really a very small part of a buffered system where water vapour swamps it in IR effects as well as other other factors which affect energy balances including latent heat and its many enigmatic phases as cloud/vapour and albedo/heat capacity effects.

I might add that more energy is shunted into the atmosphere from the surface  via routes other than radiation. Also the oceans have a heat capacity of around 4000 times that of the atmosphere and interact decisively with the whole system. The models can't handle these effects either.

Ultimately all the thoughts in the world don't make it science if the empirical evidence does not support a particular hypothesis. Thus far, Hansen's hypothesis has failed as have over 97% of model runs. That's what determines the science.

While we are at it, try and find a clear, quantified, falsifiable hypothesis other than one like Hansen's or models. 

Another fact is there is more outgoing radiation than incoming energy (NOAA) in the satellite measuring era. This is ironic in that it would defy the 1st Law of Thermodynamics given a belief in the solar constant, assumed constant albedo, a surface T increase (as well as Trenberth's missing heat).  So something must be wrong with some of these measures or assumptions.

Better to apply the whole of your learning than to focus on only minuscule CO2 addition; it's the hair on the dog's tail which is purported to wag the dog. The evidence does not show this holds. CO2 is not supposed to take a 17 year holiday either.
Lisa Meredith:

Yes, I was wrong. CO2 did not go to sleep for 17 years but more like two segments totalling about 50 years sleep from the last 70 years. Post war is when the bulk of any CO2 increase occurred. Avg T declined  until about 1978 despite CO2 increasing substantially. Similarly there has been a hiatus   from 1998 to now despite CO2 increasing.

The only contiguous segment of Avg T increase was from about 1978 to 1998. Who says CO2 was the culprit? The IPCC won't endorse that idea of exclusivity.
 
I would not pay such a lazy worker as CO2.  This is when Trenberth (around 2007) declared that it was a travesty that such a T pause could not be explained and hence came up with a hypothesis that it must be in the deep blue sea ? the missing heat. 

No, I could have told him it was the gnome in my backyard that sent the "energy" to the centre of the earth. Neither hypothesis has been tested. But Argo buoys did not detect any heat going down to the bottom of the ocean. Perhaps you have manned special missions to observe this. Please tell us. In any case so what? if some heat went there it is hardly going to come to bite us. Much like a thimble of hot water in a big, cold bath. 

Heat cannot be ?stored? by anything in the atmosphere except water through its phase changes. In fact any energy entering a volume under localised Thermodynamic equilibrium would release its equivalent immediately. CO2 itself cannot store any heat and is statistically compromised; microseconds to release that energy either by radiation or kinetic interaction.

You believe it was a Theory over a century ago. Then it should be very easy for you to state ;
1. the clear, quantified, falsifiable hypothesis of CAGW.

2. The empirical, replicable evidence which clearly supports such a hypothesis in our atmosphere/earth system.

We know all about quantum mechanics and absorption emission of CO2 and also H2O which swamps it so we don't need to keep on revisiting that. By empirical evidence we usually make predictions based on the hypothesis so that will be fine too. Mostly that is contained in predictions of increased T.

Thus far that hypothesis as outlined and inferred from Hansen's work and over 97% of the models is falsified.

Hansen by the way claimed "thus the physics is exact" re the forcings/ feedbacks.  It just has not happened that way in practice.

Why are u surprised. This instant reversal is due to the thought of Obama reducing CO2.

Another quantum mechanical property of GHGs is "anticipatory prolapse" and "pre-emptive obfuscation" as well as having rockets attached to perform all sorts of other worldly miracles.The science is certainly in. 

The hypothesis has been falsified on all the objective tests it proposed. Ahhrenius, Hansen and over 97% of model all failed the empirical tests. Epic failure of thios pseudo science conjecture.
Dr Who,
Ah, the inevitable imposter turns up; the guy who champions the likes of Cook and Lewandowsky as his heroes but denigrates genuine scientists.

You keep getting foist on your own petard that you have become a waste of time.

Let's see now my last question, that you avoid,went like this:
Your claim to being well published is in question. It is your claim! So how about making good and refer us to all those papers that you claim appear in the top publications. I have a very open mind.

In this way we can see whether there was any merit in your claim that a list of well well published climatologists were not real scientists unlike yourself. That is your claim! No one compelled you  you to write in such a manner. I have not misinterpreted it have I? I am happy to go to your original quote if you wish.
So here you have an opportunity to show us the goods
. 
There is still the matter of you not understanding the scientific method whereby you still have not addressed your hypothesis. Here, you again have the opportunity to express it.
The issue is not whether you are an Organic Chemist but your denigration of a range of published scientists, published in the standard journals,  that you claimed not to be real scientists unlike yourself.

You also made claims that your had published extensively in top class journals. That is in question and you should disclose all these papers so that we can compare with these guys that you so denigrate as being not real scientists.

So make good or belt up.
Just saying:

C4 plants originated in subtropical areas, while C3 plants populated a far broader range of climates. The former group includes sugarcane, sedges (such as papyrus),corn, sorghum, millet, ? The latter group includes rice, wheat, rye, potatoes, yams, barley, cassava, spinach, algae, ?

Under dry, hot conditions, C4 plants outperform C3 plants in photosynthetic prowess. Sugarcane is a world record holder, with 7 % efficiency converting sunlight into carbohydrates.

However, if there is sufficient water and sun, C3 plants outperform C4 plants. There are about 260,000 known species of plants, but only 0.4 % are C4 plants.

So if you wish to live on sugar, corn and millet go for it; otherwise Amber is right.Stalga, 
Five of the top six staples that feed the world are C3 foods (by annual production).

Overall crops require less LESS water with higher CO2.

The facts are the earth is greening substantially at present which contradicts your view of the world.

The IPCC is not an authority on anything to do with T given it has got it wrong in every report thus far. All you do is repeat CAGW conjecture; that is not science! If it is not subject to scientific testing of a clear quantifiable hypothesis it is pseudo science.

You should be more concerned with environmental degradation due to other man made activities not CO2 which you attribute as the cause of T. Such a cause has never been established in nature.

You point to our southern wheat belt becoming more marginal. Again you attribute this to CO2 which is a nonsense assertion again. Take the south west of WA. The main driver by far of reduced rainfall is due to the felling of very tall trees (100m) up until 1980 ( paper published 2 years ago).

You are in step with  NOAA, which has some new models claiming this is due to CO2 and is going to apply it to the US. Confirmation bias before they even start. How insightful when NOAA decides from afar that it knows more about our system than we do despite having studied it.

Perhaps PM Abbott does know more than some climatologists. Perhaps he got it right when he said climate science is crap.

BTW: what correction are you making to my sugarcane FACTS? I see no contradiction in what you say.
Any evidence for that cyclone, or frequency relationship or is this symptomatic of your scaremongering again? Do you write the lines for Sen Milne where leaves rustling in the breeze is termed climate?

In case you are not aware the whole earth is actually greening and food production is up.
I often wondered how "climastrology" evolved. Some smart cookies around to prey on the gullible and fearful.

There are a lot of palms being greased to get at those $billions on the gravy train. Just look at Gore's entanglement with Enrod and Solyndra for starters. All in the name of science, of course.
Ha, that would be torture for you if true except that you have already started being negative with that statement.Seems to me that what you propose is not too different from the experiments conducted last century predominantly by two major powers, China and Russia.

Both failed.You can't seem to make up your mind where you stand.

One isn't sure whether you approve of bank stability or otherwise and seem to be floundering for any sensible conclusion.

During the GFC, banks worldwide were stabilised by Govts where possible. Do you really believe there was a practical alternative? Armageddon springs to mind which would have served no good purpose here.

You are equally equivocal when you say:
"As a nation, we've become a one-trick economy with one major customer, shipping unprocessed dirt to China."

This needs to be put into the context that, not long ago, you were here extolling the virtues of a CO2 tax. It would wipe out vast tracts of our few remaining manufacturing industries (like aluminium which mainly exports).

Then you complain that banks lend large amounts to housing. Make up your mind! Where exactly do you wish the banks to lend especially once the mining boom is over and we would like a pick up in the rest of the economy?

Perhaps you could make a case where loans attract a tax like in France (it is not small from memory something like 10%). That may be put towards a bank stability fund.
I find Lambie a bit of a grandstanding, hypocritical goose.

If she was consistent with her desire for workers in general and in particular, say, some hard done professions, like nurses, I could understand. But to simply play out a role for the armed forces, without reference to the committee working documents or reference to the actual pay when in danger zones is a bit unbalanced.

If we have a senator decide she will try blackmail on all bills unless she gets her way suggests to me she is the wrong person to be in our Parliament. But I am only one vote and my opinion does not really matter.Now consider this analogy. 

If 98% of the operations done by a Dr fail would you let him operate on your?

If 98% of models for an aeroplane fail would you board a plane built on those models. Similarly for bridge design.

If 98% of climate models fail, would you believe them? Well, over 97% of them do fail badly and the remainder are not far off failing to a statistically significant degree.

Name one alarmist prediction which has eventuated?Let me quote for when emissions follow a Business-as-usual pattern from IPCC FAR:
?Under the IPCC Business as Usual emissions of greenhouse gases the average rate of increase of global mean temperature during the next century is estimated to be 0.3C per decade (with an uncertainty range of 0.2C ? 0.5C)? [IPCC FAR summary]

Emissions did not reduce from 1990 figures output. Our actual emissions are higher by over 25% 

The actual T has increased by about half what was predicted and that includes the biggest El Nino ever witnessed. So, am not sure how you can claim that being out by 50% in the 24 years is a good result. 

The problem is that all models are on the high side. This is actually a bigger indictment for the probability of basically independent models being so wrong all on the same side is almost a  certainty to mean they are biased and a certainty to mean they cannot capture reality.

How big do you want the target to shoot at? We can do a better job simply by sticking a finger in the air when T has been increasing since the mid 19th century.
If your bike is broken the no matter how much energy you expend in jumping up and down you will not get far. But you go for your life while other options are explored.
Andy,
Sorry but you are in total confusion about what science is. You would not try to compare it with economics which does not claim to be a science following the scientific method. 
What sets science apart from any other discipline is that there is a requirement for replicable hypothesis testing.
Simply to put forward a hypothesis and have general agreement is NOT science no matter how nice it looks and sounds. Eugenics was also touted as science, the aether theory of light propagation similarly and so on. Scientology uses a Wheatstone bridge based on science for measurement as I understand it; it is not science.
In your field it has evolved to make reasonably reliable predictions to about five days. I genuinely am impressed. No, I do not expect absolute accuracy. But you on the other hand do not insist in being absolute quite unlike the dire predictions touted in this climate field.

In all fairness (as it could be a long discussion), most of the actual scientist are not out there being alarmist in the way it is politicised. Even the highly censored IPCC report, the science part is far more tempered and circumspect which is how science should be explored.

I need to correct another point. It is not that earth has not been heating; it has. Satellites do not ned infilling for Africa. The issue is how much as this does not fit the Thermageddon predictions and is this predominantly a natural part of cycles that the earth has shown happens. No one can explain the cycles of Minoan, Egyptian, Roman, Mediaeval warm periods and the Little Ice Age or the emergence from there.Stalga:
What do you think science is if it is not the prediction of outcomes based on  hypothesis and working models??

Science is not just a thought bubble; any old idea by a scientist. Science is judged by the empirical evidence of experiment. Without the clear, quantified hypothesis testing there is no science.

Models are supposed to represent the extension of the working hypothesis. They are used to test other climate ideas and publish papers so don't come in here to pretend that it is not meaningful to subject  them to hypothesis testing within standard error limits. That's why a few have not been falsified as they just barely scrape into that error level; but in effect there is little chance that they are ok.

The models fail so they can?t be right. Hansen failed so he can?t be right. I guess that only leaves you and Dr Who below.
Some 8000 years ago the Great Barrier Reef did not exist. If they are expanding south it sounds like a great development. Victoria could do with being fringed by the GBR.

Isn't that what evolution is supposed to be about\? Adaptation and survival of the fittest. Been going on for millions of years. So has coral bleaching.

The biggest problem is man's more direct impact like:
"In particular, coral mining, pollution (organic and non-organic), overfishing, blast fishing and the digging of canals and access into islands and bays are serious threats to these ecosystems. Coral reefs also face high dangers from diseases, destructive fishing practices and warming oceans. chemical release, soil release,"

Warming is a minor part which on its own would be negligible as they can adapt; corals grow quite well near New Guinea too.
LOL, on what corner shall we stand with those placards.

Do we genuflect while kissing Ban Ki-Moon's ring finger or is Dr Pachaudri the head man. What if Sen Milne, prophet of doom, arrives. Do we do the same or has she not made it into the inner sanctum yet? What of Di Caprio; he must be a high priest, surely.

I wrote a few days ago that alarmist global warming claims to be a "science" is like a failed, arthritic crock claiming a right to run in the Melbourne cup. It's only credentials are it has four legs replete with race failure for hacks. It failed again.And who might that be? Over 97% of the models fail  So they can't be right. Hansen's type physics failed too, so he can't be right.

Doesn't leave too much with credibility.I don't know about any plots but do know that 97% of model runs failed so they can't be right.

Hansen's predictions failed too, so he can't be right.

So am mightily puzzled as to where to look for empirical evidence to support the alarmist ideas. So far the earth is handling it with ease; doesn't bat an eyelid.

Oh BTW, not right to jump to conclusions about climate change when most acknowledge that it does.It is really a bit simpler than all that.

Science is about empirical evidence to support a hypothesis. So far there is no scientific hypothesis and over 97% of failed models ? so they can't be right. Hansen's predictions failed too ? so he can't be right.

Opinion does not make for science, no matter whose opinion. 

But follow the money; start with the UN and their new beaut polished report. Just send your tithes to the UN and the planet will be fixed. They will make pigs learn to fly too if they have to.
Alfie, as expected you have a few Chicken Little junk science  aficionados telling you the end is nigh.

My sound advice is to call for Chicken Man to fix their problem; I have his number somewhere.
In looking up a definition it says:  "A free market is a market system in which the prices for goods and services are set freely by consent between sellers and consumers, through the forces of supply and demand without intervention by a government, price-setting monopoly, or other authority." 

How does imposing caps, taxes, RET (even on hydro ? a renewable) or arbitrary variations in countries even in their own community (EU) or the constraint on being able to buy permits at actual lowest world prices constitute a free market system?

So it seems like a questionable free market tax wpuld apply based on an equally questionable science assertion. It is more like the pressure from carpet baggers to mulct the public purse in the guise of saving a planet which, in reality,  is handling it rather well. In fact from a human economic and health perspective mankind has never had it better.

The gravy train starts with the UN which gets 10% of our taxes on CO2. Keep following the money trail; cui bono gives all the answers.

The original CO2 tax adds up to a loss of industry and well over a quarter of a million jobs in due course ? based on Treasury estimates.

The CO2/RET tax is in effect a reverse tariff. Some of the industries involved mainly export the end product like aluminium.

This is the dilemma. Tax heavily and lose industry and jobs. Alternatively remove taxes and meet targets in a softer way which is what PM Abbott went to the election with. Nothing hard in understanding this trade-off.
The alternative based on Treasury estimates was for a reduction in GDP of 1.5%. Add the RET to it and I figure that's over a quarter of a million jobs once caps start to bite and industry concessions eased.

Sure, CO2 emissions would reduce but at what cost and what actual tangible benefit? No one has ever committed to specific ?benefit.? They talk a lot, sure !

According to Greg Hunt "The work that the CSIRO is doing is looking at a 30 to potentially 50 per cent reduction in the footprint of coal fired power stations." I don't know what is being referred to here but if this is indeed correct then there are huge benefits available. This benefits us all.You embellish it a bit as 10% of our CO2 taxes went directly to the UN. Don't pass Go!!

I don't know what the Labor Govt was going to do about the job losses once the industry concessions were reduced and severe caps put into place.

I guess they were not planning to stay around too long as Treasury estimates were for a reduction in GDP of 1.5%. Add the RET to it and I figure that's over a quarter of a million jobs.

Of course you believe that Labor was capable of fixing everything. Yeah, Swan is waiting in the background for another crack at it with more  flavoursome budget deficits; bigger, better n brighter!We can revisit the inquiries and their recommendations yet not one of them addresses the actual science. A lot has happened since Howard's days.

For a start we have Trenberth's famous 'travesty that we do not know why the T has not increased' and subsequent claim that the heat was now hidden in the deep blue sea and I guess ready to pounce on us nonsense around 2007. This has recently been dismissed by NOAA - about seven years too late.

The T hiatus continues as evidenced even in the last IPCC report.

If one addresses the actual science there is none which supports the catastrophic cause and effect scenarios. The latest study shows a CO2 sensitivity of just 0.43C for a doubling of CO2 i.e. peanuts.

Over 97% of models fail and fail miserably in T forecasts as do the Hansen forecasts.  There is not one substantial alarmist prediction which has come to fruition. Science is all about empirical evidence and there is none to support CAGW.

Alarmist global warming claims to  be a  "science" is like a failed, arthritic crock claiming a right to run in the Melbourne cup. It's only credentials are it has four legs replete with race failure for hacks. 
Reinhard:

And I in return don't know how often I need to remind you that we are talking ?science? and not some arbitrary BS that you personally wish to follow.

In science when we measure we do so with an error level component. It is not there for the fun. Go look up the NOAA site and it will be clearly spelled out for you so that you don't come in here and make a fool of yourself trying to argue about second decimal place calculations.

In addition, the IPCC  describes this period as a HIATUS. You got that or are you saying your thoughts on the matter trump the IPCC.

BOTH satellite records, which have lower error levels, clearly shows that 1998 is still the highest T year and outside the error level.

But you carry on following your arthritic crock with expectations of winning the Melb Cup.

Yes, and keep slurring scientists rather than address their findings.
As usual you are an imposter.  There are at least a half dozen papers all pointing to sensitivity levels well below the 3C commonly espoused including Curry et al as being more recent at about 1.3C. 
These numbers continue to come down and there are even questions of statistical distributions at the lower end being insufficient (but that can keep for now).

While we are on this your claim to being well published is in question. It is your claim! So how about making good and refer us to all those publications that you claim appear in the top publications. I have a very open mind.

In this way we can compare this to the list of well published climatologists that you stated were not real scientists unlike yourself. That is your claim! No one coerced you to write in such a manner. I have not misinterpreted it have I? I am happy to go to your original quote if you wish.

So here you have an opportunity to show us the goods. We have the opportunity to compare to this to the work of scientists you so denigrated.Stalga:
Your question is a good one except that you work on the wrong premise.
I have not claimed that the sensitivity is 0.43C; it is the latest in a string of papers which has significantly reduced sensitivity. I don't know what the sensitivity really is; no one does.

However unless you believe that CO2 takes holidays and long sleep sessions your attribution of the increase exclusively to CO2 is erroneous. Even the IPCC is well guarded on this. If indeed we try to correlate T with CO2 there is poor correlation. There is more correlation with out-gassing it seems in response to T.

CO2 alone is only given an attribution of about 1C per doubling - standard climatology. The rest of the alarmist proposal is to come mainly from H2O highly positive feedback. This has never been shown to happen nor is it well understood.
 
The reason is simple. Most of the transfer of heat from the surface does not come via radiation. There is a whole complex buffering system which includes cloud cover and albedo. This is basically no man's land as models do not capture this well. It has multiple effects including albedo and of course ocean heating.

The ocean is by far the biggest climate component in the system at about 70% of the earth surface. So called back radiation can't even penetrate the skin of the water so it is hardly the cause of ocean heating.

BTW: clouds at different levels have different effects! But they are a real enigma. The hypothesis of sunspots effect works on cloud response.That, or the thought of reintroducing it,  certainly stopped the "warming." Ah the powers of the placebo effect!Jaspez, I'm afraid you are arguing from a lack of knowledge. Perth always had such a climate that you describe ? certainly in my long memory. It would not matter if all the homogenised T was all back to the level of seventy years ago, your description would still apply.

There is one exception that I know of which was addressed in a paper two years ago.  This has to do with the felling of the very large trees (100m+) up until 1980. This has had the major impact on rainfall with both lower moisture and less release of nucleating chemicals into the atmosphere.

BTW, judging by some of the water pipes (school friends) that froze I suggest Perth city itself is slightly warmer at night. Perhaps it is a UHI effect. So if you find winter cold now well spare a thought for the past too.Jerry;
There are two issues here;
1. whether CO2 itself is or may be a problem. At this stage it is pure conjecture. Assertions are not science. It can only be called real science if there is empirical evidence to support a falsifiable hypothesis. There is none. So this is one issue.

2. Let's leave aside this issue and just assume we want to reduce CO2 - just for the hell of it. Oz faces a dilemma. Treasury modelling shows that the CO2 tax would reduce GDP by 1.5% in due course (i.e. when fully operational without the generous concessions).

3. Add to this impost the RET and we would reduce GDP by over 2%.

That adds up to a loss of industry and well over a quarter of a million jobs in due course.

The CO2/RET tax is in effect a reverse tariff. Some of the industries involved mainly export the end product like aluminium. There are many other trade exposed industries. Cement making simply releases half its CO2 as an intrinsic part of the chemistry involved.

This is the dilemma. Tax heavily and lose industry and jobs. Alternatively remove taxes and meet targets in a softer way which is what Abbott went to the election with. Nothing hard in understanding this trade-off.Well we do need to look at countries like Spain, Italy, Greece to see what can happen.

The lessons are there to see well in advance of the outcome; Oz is particularly poorly placed given its far more constrained economy. Look at the efforts Hawke/Keating made to get the economic balance right.

BTW some of their reforms are dropping the CPI.Other than handing ocver 10% of the CO2 taxes to the UN, perhaps you can  remind us what the benefits were?No Theos, the issue is not simply whether there is "global warming" but whether it is catastrophic. 

Empirical evidence separates belief from science. Over 97% of models runs fail miserably. That is empirical evidence. Hansen's forecasts fail too.

The latest study puts the sensitivity at 0.43C (for a doubling of CO2) or in other words peanuts. This sensisitivity has been coming down progressively as new evidence emerges.As usual you are given to exaggeration given that it is limited to a maximum of ten such fees a year. In addition real needy people would be exempt from the co payment.Alpo,
The price adjustment to my bill is certainly worth more than the few cappuccinos that you claim. The CO2 tax reduction is an ongoing avoidance and certainly not temporaryl

Did you not read Greg's piece that RET puts price pressures on power generators and that this will cause lower price increases. So then let's go for more RET for low power prices eh!  I wonder why SA are paying the most for power with all their wind power supply.

Let's put the CO2 tax back on and we can celebrate even lower prices.
Yet you admit to savings!I think that people of all persuasions would regard Gough Whitlam as a great statesman, with superb eloquence and wit comparable to Menzies, but you are a bit soft on him when it comes to the economy.

Of course he contributed to the inflationary spiral; he decided to make the public service the pace setters in wages. To my mind he wanted inflation to generate tax revenue. He had poor colleagues, it is true as Hayden, seemed to be the only one to understand  the economic issues.

The same profligate spending and model was emulated by Rudd/Gillard. Implement great plans (some not so great) and hang the budget. Hawke/Keating are a stark contrast in that they inherited a lousy economy from Fraser (from memory $10 billion deficit budget) but set about the task of rebuilding and opening up the economy.

Whitlam's period was certainly an exciting period with the current affairs programmes relishing in the new scandals on a daily basis.
Seems to me not to make too much sense reverting to the old Russian and Chinese models.

If a Govt already gets 30% of the profit via taxes for no capital outlay, you believe it makes sense to fund the whole enterprise to get the remaining part of the profit. That also assumes Govts can be as nimble as private enterprise; I have yet to see it.

Perhaps it might be better to have sound policies to grow the economy instead; far more productive for capital. Look at NBN under Conroy even with a monopoly.
Well done Dr Hewson. Would you suggest we now reintroduce high wall tariffs and lots of pork to various industries; the ghost of McEwanism

None of the auto makers have actually shut down yet so would you suggest we now revisit the subsidies for them. How many $billions would you suggest for the 1000's of jobs.

A subsidy is a subsidy is a subsidy no matter what it is called and it just spells one word -  "inefficiency!" Universal RET would indeed ultimately hit trade exposed industries unless you suggest the consumer pick up this tab too!

Oh yes, it spells a phrase for consumers: "higher power costs."


Broadly, I would only favour a short term subsidy to get an industry started but not as lifeblood support at all.

But before you jump why don't you spell out what subsidy you are talking about. If it is another load of codswallop like the diesel so called subsidy then forget it! One has to go back to what purpose the tax was designed. The diesel and other fuel tax was for road use and was to be applied specifically to road expenditure.

If a sector is given subsidies then of course it is a threat to any competing industry. That is self evident. What is your point? 

It certainly is not competitive without the subsidies. I asked an Electrical Engineer the other day as to how renewables fared in remote mining areas. Same answer; not competitive without subsidies. 


Given the tax was introduced by Fraser perhaps Hockey knows what he is talking aboutReinhard:
Reports can be massaged whichever way one wants.

If these reports are valid then the renewable industry will have a field day without subsidies won't they? Why do we need enforced "decisions."

The problem with many of these comparisons is that the true investment and subsidy is not really reflected in the pricing model. For example there is a requirement for infrastructure and "on demand"  for which the renewable does not really contribute. Power companies are forced to take whatever is made available to them from the renewable sector making power companies less efficient.

These are hardly like for like fair comparisons. In future it is indeed possible that unsubsidised solar could be competitive if say the Tesla storage system is developed and costs reduced. We will see; I just don't see why we should subsidize it.

The problem with Hewson's case is that he forgets that the industries impacted have little to do with the broad market, like aluminium. It is forced to pay even though it needs little or no line transmission or even self generates. So industries get penalised for no good reason.

In any case the only area that the Govt wants to take the RET penalty off is the trade exposed industries. So, what is the problem? I can only see a benefit in not distorting these markets. You and I will still be paying for RET!Reinhard:
Why address that question to me?  Go ask the people involved.

Irrespective of the terms of reference, a decision to favour one sector or another in competing industries is trying to pick winners. Govts have shown themselves to be less than useful here. I really don't see any advantage to Oz at all economically in the RET. The markets ought be allowed to sort themselves out with the renewables having been given enormous benefits already, which is being perpetuated as I have commented.
Sure, the euphemistic nonsense argument is your only defence.

That fails on a number of grounds viz. it piggy backs on existing and ongoing infrastructure to which it contributes zero capital, it has very favourable treatment not given to its direct competitors, it adds nothing to the real capacity needed. it has no requirement to produce as per demand,  it sponges off existing direct competitive facilities with favoured treatment and it is totally uncompetitive.

Cut off its favoured treatment and it would collapse in a heap.And if "doing anything" does not achieve much then what is the point. 

The CO2 sensitivity is the whole issue. When over 97% of models have failed and Hansen's type hypothesis has failed and all the dire predictions have failed what is the basis of the alarm to spend $trillions?Well perhaps rather than believe in how certain one is lets look at the data. Over 97% of models fail and fail miserably in T forecasts as do the Hansen forecasts. 

I can't speak for others, but I certainly would not hop onto a plane based on models where there was over 97% failure rate. Similarly for medicines and anything else of consequence.

You are asking us to pay heaps so that you can feel good. Some may feel that it will achieve the same outcome whether one prays or one pays. That way we don't screw up our few remaining manufacturing industries.

Contrary to the silly notion that we skeptics look at the overestimated 16% CO2 level from models, we actually look at what the science does say. 

The sensitivity to CO2 has been coming down in a number of papers. The latest paper puts it at 0.43C, which is peanuts ( for a doubling of CO2 and includes all feedbacks). Other papers have put it well below the alarmist ideas. 

We actually do look at the T pause despite  the significant CO2 increase which runs counter to the hypothesis; there is no satisfactory explanation.

We actually do look at the over 97% failed climate models. We look at Hansen's failed T predictions which was supposedly based on exact physics. We do look at the plethora of  other failed predictions.

Science is all about empirical evidence; thus far the evidence falsifies its predictions and hypothesis.
Greg, you make a lot of noise over minor variations when the error level shown in NOAA's own data base is + or ? 0.12C. In other words the error or uncertainty swamps the measures you mention and renders the conclusions you wish to make invalid.

The idea that this year will be the highest on record is just plain nonsense unless they keep on tampering with the data and in-filling and ignore errors levels.

In any case it really is of no consequence as this does not fix the failed  97% of model runs. It will not account for the CO2 increase which has occurred unless one decides CO2  has little effect.

The most reasonable reliable average T is from satellite data ? UAH and RSS. Both these show 2014 will likely be below 2010 and 1998 by a significant amount and beyond the error level.

Embellish it with a polka dot dress or call it by any name but it is a tax; a job destroying tax to achieve zilch.Really, Matty and what science would you be speaking of here? Thought bubble science that doesn't match reality perhaps? Science is all about empirical evidence against which models are tested they fail miserably in climate.

If Climastrolgy and its Chicken Little predictions are to guide us it would be better to read Tarot cards or ougii boards for it is a sure way back to mediaeval witches and fire and brimstone epiphanies.

The previous minister for science could not have been much good if all that was promoted was this sort of science and flim flam Flannery's predictions of rivers not running and dams not filling.
Reinhard:
Meaningless nonsense as a model has to hind cast as well as forecast to be considered any good. It also needs to avoid cherry picked data. By 1999, the La Nina event was in progress and a schoolboy could pick the bounce of the 97 El Nino; no need for a model there just go by previous history in a warm ENSO period.

Over 97% of the models have failed and failed miserably. If one buys enough tickets in lotto eventually the winner will turn up. Not a very scientific approach to success. Now, pick which model is going to be right in ten years time.

The latest paper on CO2 sensitivity shows it to be only 0.43C meaning it is a peanuts effect for a doubling of CO2 including feedbacks.
Reinhard:
This is not a hard concept to grasp and you should reflect on it rather than say "end of story.."

If enough people make enough guesses one or more of them will likely be close to the mark. Post hoc selection of the right guess is not evidence of ability to guess correctly in the future.

It needs continual testing as well as judge it against the past data which has not been used to generate the model.

Otherwise, the witchdoctors and the like will be able to claim they are right simply because they happened to guess right sometimes.

Would you go and judge the methods of picking the trifecta in the Melbourne Cup as having scientific integrity if a person/s was successful?
Reinhard:
You clearly have not grasped that a model has to be tested on unseen data. Testing, but particularly statistical testing, is useless if the models have used that data for their development. This would only work if the system was deterministic and we had the means to capture that system (we don't). 

Now if that is the case, what are the results prior to 1946? There is a history going back to the mid 19th century.  Were they tested on data not used for development? If not why not?

If over 97% of models fail then clearly some cannot be ruled out on meaningful statistical levels but that does not make them right. There is no way to skirt around this issue no matter what they like to say after the event.


Dr Who:
From experience you have shown yourself to be bolted on to the biggest cherry picker in history and with little scientific credibility. Rather than throw stones from a glass house start to become a little more introspective and humble and accept your limitations.

Your cherry picked nonsense again came to the fore when you claimed I had misled people when I did not mention the PDO effect in the sixties. You are wrong on a number of accounts the clearest being that you are either ignorant or deliberately misleading when you failed to account for the ?great PDO WARM shift ? of 1977 which stultified your argument. I will cover this at some other time as the moderators stopped my comment (which I guess was a bit scathing of your idiocy).

As one commenter has retorted you are not even fit to tie the shoelaces of a number of scientists that you stated were not real scientists - quite unlike yourself as you claimed. Ironically many of them had published in excess of twenty peer reviewed papers in the standard literature that you now wish to hide behind. 

How many have you published? Nada, zip, niente, nihil, none!

The likes of Einstein never put up with nonsense of so called ?peer review? or ?pal review;? he simply told a publisher to stick it. Peer review is not an essential part of the scientific method nor does it assure one of robustness or integrity. 

Your hero Lewandowsky has had two peer review papers retracted recently. Your other hero John Cook will surely have his last paper retracted too. These works have been described as effectively dishonest by people in the field. There were over 150 peer reviewed papers retracted in a week not long ago.

The field is characterised by gate-keeping which is well documented including shutting a publication down because it to let something through which questioned the orthodoxy.

A paper's merits are on what it says. You do not address the physics involved but hide behind your cherry picker and attack the scientists instead.Alpo:
With homogenised and pasteurised data one can show anything eh! The data bases you look at suffer from changing the past T data at any time (even before your own eyes) as well as urban heat island effect (UHI).

Go to satellite data, which has no UHI and where the data is not changed after publication and it is a different story as 1998 is still the highest T by far. It is nonsense to suggest that land and sea T are better.

The fact is that we have to go back some 18 years before the linear trend is basically not zero. This is not cherry picked as it is the same by adjusting the 97 ElNino year downwards if you like. The point being that CO2 hypothesis has no explanation for the hiatus over such a long period when CO2 has been increasing strongly.

Go to the 115 pristine sites in the US which are not tampered with and have no UHI and T shows a decline ( these were only operating from 2003 so I only point to them as a guide not something definitive).

We may still be warming but it has little to do with CO2 as highlighted by the latest paper showing that CO2 sensitivity is only 0.43C (for a doubling of CO2!).

That is hot on the heels of other papers showing a marked reduction in sensitivity compared to IPCC (which also acknowledges the hiatus). Perhaps you are the one in fantasy land.Is the symbolic gesture worth the effort?  The comparison with ?climate change? seems obtuse.

When in Iraq we fire real bullets; reducing CO2 is simply firing blanks. The whole world is firing blanks here.

A truer comparison may be with France, which does not seem to have any more planes in the action. Perhaps training Iraqi forces would account for more than a symbolic gesture.
It is easy to have great ideas which float like lead balloons when tested in real life. If the idea can't be or is not managed well it is a dud. If you can't and don't fund them then they are a dud.

There are not many winners on your list.

The hospitals were supposed to be fixed under Rudd. Were they? 

The most expensive CO2 tax in the world - a useless, job destroying, reverse tariff tax is hardly an achievement. Even the unions are now finally starting to bitch about its and RET's job costs.

Education reform; tell me how much will endure. Even the laptop for all kids died.
NBN; a black hole that simply could not survive under its original authorship and management.

Basically the Rudd/Gillard/Swan team had lots of dud ideas and little management skills. How often were we told by them of a budget surplus?
Julie Bishop has been acclaimed not simply by the Lib supporters but by her international peers and media.

The suggestion od a tilt at PM position fails on two clear grounds none of which relate to her gender, which itself is a silly assertion given that we have elected a female before under very trying conditions.

She has stated openly and privately that she has no desire for the job on many occasions and hence the fundamental reason she retained the Deputy role under different leaders. To reverse that unifying image would not be simple and  leave her open to severe criticism which would be fatal. 

Further, there is absolute support for PM Abbott; he could not have maintained such a solid wall without genuine respect for him from within. Even the charismatic Turnbull would have no show at present. So it is a dead duck idea.
Well may you say that as she is playing with the hand dealt and is doing it brilliantly. So is PM Abbott. It is in our interests that they do perform, isn't it? 

Can't see the problems you raised are an issue; China is pushing ahead with the Trade deal and Indonesia wants closer relationships. Could not be better despite the spy scandal, which happened under Labor's watch.

Would you be referring to the ?Rat F... by the Chinese ? comment that Rudd made? That's a long time ago.Alpo:
The LNP were asked to fix the National Accounts. Just because the accounts are worse than we all thought does not mean they should sit on their hands, like Swan, and say it is too hard.

Free trade has benefited us and will continue to do so. In case you just woke up, we have been transitioning from a highly protected economy ever since Hawke/Keating started the move in the mid 80's. 

On the dairy side the New Zealanders were not slouches and stole the march on us while Labor slept. Seems to me Hockey has been quite active internationally addressing the transfer pricing and tax issues re multinationals.

Not sure what you expect on the supermarkets; Rudd was going to have a grocery watch/ fuel watch. Quite bizarre at a national level, but how is that faring?

Destruction? Fixing health was also one of Rudd's promises; apart from spending a lot very little was achieved. On education Ms Gillard/Swan were fixing it without the money to do so; not a great long term strategy for success. Pine seems to be tackling it.

Mad intervention? Given Labor fully supports this, the UN support it, a host of countries support it including Arab States where do you see the problem? Is it that you see ISIL wiping out half the population there and then the problems go away.

Climate change policies? Well seems to me you are confused. It is very clear. Got rid of a useless,  pernicious, reverse tariff tax which was going to destroy jobs and living standards. Are you upset that the UN no longer gets the tithes on those taxes?

Replace Abbott!?? You do jest. He has absolute solid backing and is doing a great job.Amber:
Quite right.
The sensitivity of doubling CO2 is indeed suggested as about 1C with the assumption that this could double or treble due to positive feedbacks. None of this has ever been shown to hold. People need go no further than the IPCC reports for the reference.

Based on empirical evidence the latest paper (J Curry et al) puts the immediate most likely total sensitivity at about 1.6C for a doubling of CO2  on the ASSUMPTION that ALL of the T increase is due to GHG and not internal variability (high hopes as not even the IPCC is game to say that).
 
There is a list of over 30,000 scientists (over 9000 PhD's) who disagree with the CAGW alarmist hypothesis. But as usual there are none so blind as those who will not see (or hear, or think or be scientific). 

Only one thing speaks in science: replicable empirical evidence to support a hypothesis. Anything else is hand waving or jiving.
Malcolm:
You found one imposter in the list. Can u name any more? On a list of over 30,000 where some warmists tried to disrupt its value how many did you say were invalid? That is why I said ?over? 30K. It far exceeds any list. of warmer ?scientists.?

On your furfy of hiatus years the facts are clear. The T has only increased in a continuous period for only 20 of the last 70 years. That 20 year period is contiguous with the hiatus since 1998 and the period prior to 1979 which was a cooling period. 

So CO2 likes to take holidays and sleep a lot. But you go right ahead and be a true believer as there is no science to this crock of an idea.
Well Alpo we must be in a cooling cycle as the last three years are below 2010 and 1998.

Seriously, do you wish to hide behind adjusted databases on the basis of two decimal places. That is indeed a laugh. The only measures which are not tampered with after publication and are not affected by UHI are the satellite records and they clearly show 1998 as being the warmest.

More importantly, CO2 has been increasing such that whatever database one uses the sensitivity is nigh on zilch since then. Very lazy this CO2 beastie.
Dr Who:
Players in this field, like Shell, are actively exhorting Govts to foster renewable energy. Advised you ages ago and yet you still don't understand why.

Quote from an investment newsletter:
"Chevron now prides itself on being one of the world's leading geothermal producers,"

"ExxonMobil and Chevron seem to be leading Big Oil in investing in renewables for the future. "

"ExxonMobil expects the use of renewables will increase by 150% by 2040, led by wind and hydroelectric power."

Perhaps one needs to understand their strategic direction rather than uninformed conjecture.
When there is a gravy train as long as the earth is round why would there be a need for any conspiracy.

Scientists are small fry in the scheme of this CAGW. They are easily bought with cheap handouts.  The big players control this game - the carpet baggers. If it was science there would be no need for the incessant stupidity of so called consensus science or 97% agree Cook cooked paper (it will be withdrawn, I will bet anyone) which are ploys to hide the lack of science.

Science does not need that nonsense but it and the alarmist end of the world is all that holds it together. There is no science to CAGW. None, nada , zip, niente, nihil! But you are free to show me the empirical evidence of a falsifiable hypothesis. Please state both clearly.

You mention the Entropy law (2nd L of T). This is one of the most robust in all of science. It achieves this by being probably the most tested of all laws in science ? through skepticism. It always came out trumps (may fail in a black hole).

Now show me one, even one, grant given to subject the CAGW assertion to falsifiability. Heavens they have even shut down publications because they allowed a paper to slip through which may have slightly questioned the orthodoxy. It is junk, cargo cult science which does not allow the rigorous testing of a hypothesis.

But, before we even get there, define the clear falsifiable quantified hypothesis. It is missing in action. Hence the empirical evidence is also missing.
Well it is so simple that after over 150 years of GHG ideas there still is no falsifiable hypothesis and the empirical evidence does not support an Armageddon.

That is very simple, indeed.
There is some difference between lighting a fire and Armageddon. Similarly an assertion is not science.

Strange, the removal of the CO2 tax, which acts as a reverse tariff,  is designed to protect jobs. The official Treasury estimates were that the CO2 tax would reduce GDP by 1.5%. That is around 200K jobs lost.
the obvious is that despite CO2 increasing the T has has only shown a segment if increase for 20 years out of the last 70 years. 

Thr increase happened between 79 and 98. It has basically been flat since 98 or went into a U shape prior to 79.And what science would that be? Other than the word ?science? there is no science to CAGW except political science. There is plenty of that!

Yes it should indeed concern us how science has been so trashed that the scientific method is nowhere to be seen in this field.
Comments of  professionals in this field re the Cook published paper:

"The Cook et al 97% paper included a bunch of psychology studies, marketing papers, and surveys of the general public as scientific endorsement of anthropogenic climate change. This study was multiply fraudulent and multiply invalid.."

This is just the start of the issues with his paper.

Comments re a peer reviewed paper about the Cook paper:

"Further examination by Legates et al. (2013) showed that only 41 of the 64 abstracts, or 1.0% of the 4014 abstracts expressing an opinion on the Party Line, or just 0.3% of the original 11,944 abstracts, had said Yes to the standard version of consensus."

So Cook seems to have cooked his books and his paper to arrive at a miserly result. It will surely be retracted.
Why the mystery? When I fly or cross a bridge it has been designed by people whose models have been shown to work and closely follow any science.

Over 97% of climate models have failed. Hansen's implied hypothesis also failed and that was supposedly exact physics. That is what science is about ? success with the empirical evidence which tests a hypothesis. If it fails the hypothesis is falsified.

Why should and how can I then have confidence that you ask of me and fellow travellers? 

If a doctor and had botched 10 of his previous operations would you then allow him to operate on you if he told you it was necessary? I would not.I don't doubt the survey results but perhaps a survey in a month when Di Caprio is less prominent as a global scientist may be different.

What I find amusing is that all the major predictions like the Arctic ice disappearing (polar Bears are actually on the increase), Antarctic sea ice extent is the largest since satellite records began, Manhattan, Tuvalu and Maldives are not underwater as predicted, no increase in major hurricane and static T are clear evidence of the exaggerated claims and yet the survey seems to suggest people are more concerned.

I guess it was always an emotional rather than evidence based ?science.? The flim, flam Flannery predictions of dams unlikely to ever fill or rivers not running again seem to be forgotten. Still it was an expensive desal investment made by Govts.

What is bewildering is that people need to be given an incentive despite believing in renewable energy. This makes little sense if there was a genuine belief for we are not talking about big investments in the domestic field given that it already piggy backs on to the Grid. 

What happened to the efficient ?market  mechanism? fostered by Garnaut/Labor? Or is it that people want to get a free benefit to throw off the shackles of power companies which are seen as increasing prices partly to meet RET and lower Grid usage.

Pity they did not explore what was expected to be achieved by different types of renewable energy.

Amazing stuff.

