The original concept of the Federal Parliament as I understood it going back to my high school days was that parties as such were not really intended.
The idea was to form loose confederacies that combined and dissolved in a permanent state of flux depending upon the specific debate or bill in question.

Pretty much as the Senate seems to be heading towards.

Obviously even in this idealised concept parties would have to form simply because like minded people would see the value in voting blocks  they weren't formal and people voted for the individual not a party.

Anyhow, it didn't work out this way but the fact that it's happening to some degree is not a bad thing as such, it just makes life difficult for the major parties and that's a good thing.Not so sure Labour no long have zero credibility.

Before the abbot bunch made it to power the general feeling was that anybody would be better but we've seen this isn't true and not just federally, the Queenslanders have found to their disappointment that taking that attitude to the polls leads to disaster.

Perhaps this time round people may be more circumspect?

Easy to be cynical but we do seem to be in the middle of a political and social sea change here so a certain amount of confusion is to be expected.

Basically as a country we have to decide are we a fair and tolerant society or do we want to obey the law of the jungle in some kind of tough love, dady knows best way of dealing with the country. 

Tone has shown us all a taste of where this is going and it would seem that most people don't want it. Hopefully they'll be stopped in the Senate or kicked out without doing too much damage to the country in the mean time. 
There do seem to be more than a few of these types now a days.
I wonder if these LNP people who are going AWOL aren't really just seeing that while they consider themselves to be Liberals and all that means to them they see the extreme right within their own parties as a cancer  that they can try to do something about from within?
Be more middle of the road which is really what the Liberal Party was until it was hijacked by the extreme right.Does have a very Faustian way about it doesn't it.I really want to see the back of the Liberals but a change of leader which would hopefully also mean a change of policy to a more realistic one would at least be tolerable.Malcolm made a complete arse of himself over the Gordon Gretch incident and I admit as a Labour man I loved every second of it but all's forgiven Malcolm, count the numbers carefully and come back.

Very few of we the people type voters doubt you'd do a better job that the clown running the circus now.
Perhaps some of your own team don't like you but sooner or later they'll see the writing on the wall too.

Frankly I don't think people will be listening too much to the outcome of the enquiries because it's becoming dim history compared to the daily doses we're all getting right now.

Not saying all of the mistakes of the past don't matter as such but this current mob are so on the nose that if an election were called they'd just be dumped.

On the other hand, if they grew up and instead of trying to bash though a budget that has not the slightest whiff of a mandate, ideally with a different PM they may just become a functioning government.

I mean this really has become an epic drama that should never have got this far and just looks as if it's going to continue.Could be, but the electoral map was last election and I wonder what it will look like this time round?

I was just suggesting that compared to what's going on now perhaps people will say, look, this is just a joke right now, that was history, time to re-boot and get things stable again. Or words to that effect.What mess exactly?, please not the budget emergency because there isn't one.

abbot got in because he lied, simple as that.
He thought that once you get in, now matter how you get in you'll have 6 years minimum to do your worst because people would just sleep though it anyhow.

He was wrong.

The lies are being remembered, his budget was in no way even hinted at as far as the measures he wants to take  and his behaviour is just making things worse.

He really has sowed the wind and the whirlwind is his alone.But there is no budget emergency, that's the point.Depending on who you ask the uproar isn't against the Senate and them blocking the budget as they should be doing, it's against the budget itself and the lies abbot told to get into power.

As has been mentioned earlier, abbot has no mandate based on what he went to the election with, the Senate on the other hand does have the mandate to block as it is doing.

There is absolutely no reason why any Senate should just rubber stamp what the lower house presents it and in this parliament almost nothing of this budget should be passed.True. The middle way is ultimately the only way.In short, yes. That's the system.
The members of the Senate are as legitimately elected as the members of the Lower House, in this particular case considering the lies told to get there by abbot more legitimacy than the Lower House.

Had he not told so many lies and made it to power he wouldn't be having the problem he's encountering now.

The Senate is doing it's job.

If the existing budget doesn't get passed in a material way they have to either greatly modify it to pass the Senate or go to a DD. That is the way it's supposed to work, it's not a two horse first past the post wins all race, it only looks that way sometimes.
Agree entirely.
Now all we need is a gov that has job creation policies, which we unfortunately don't have.These millions of dollars quoted just aren't real.

I think Game Of Thrones is a great series but I didn't pirate it, I'll wait for it to come out on DVD and hire it or maybe by then I'll be over it and not bother.

If it was available someplace other than a from a media company that want to pedal an outdated way of selling it's product I'd use them but they are out of date, cost too much for what you get and they're blaming file sharing as the cause.

In exactly the same was as cable and DVD stores have killed of Cinema new technology is doing for them.

They have to come up with a better way of selling their product in a way and at a price that people will buy legally. 

Until then there will be pirating.The problem for the government here is simple.

They told some real whoppers to get in and are now trying pull a fast one with this budget.

Even if it was ok to get in the way they did the Senate would have to feel comfortable that this budget is what the majority of Australians want because they the senators want to be re-elected too.

If the senators believed the gov lied but that for all of that this budget was popular the Senate would be happy to comply because they would be re-elected too by a happy electorate but it's not like this.

The think is they prob would have been elected had they come clean and outlined what they had in mind and the Senate would have complied but they didn't.

The senators know that we know abbott and co lied, in a big way and that this is a very unpopular budget that is attempting to point the country in a direction we don't want to go so they're blocking it, as they should.

Because of the lies told to got the gov in to power the gov has no mandate to force these issues and the Senate being a legitimate and necessary part of the Aust Parliament does on the other hand have a mandate to block the parts of the budget that they see as bad, which they are.

Now, Abbott and Hocky have no traction as far as trust is concerned which is why Lambie treated Hocky with contempt because she knows that Hocky the huff and puff and Hocky the smoothy are one and the same and neither can be trusted.
Lambie is the most obvious example of this but to some degree it's true of most of the senators, to hitch their wagons to this government is a bad career move because we don't want them.

Abbott thinks that lies are OK because after you confess them it's all OK but it's not, and considering the song and dance he made about the importance of truth before he was elected he can't possibly expect anybody but the fatally attracted to ever trust the guy again.
Really, it's over for them. Sooner or later they fall on their swords, get pushed or there's a DD and until then we'll have to endure this train wreck of a government.Unfortunately you're right both about 2 years being a long time and abbott not being a howard.

In 2 years if the same people are running things it'll just be worse.Did they handle the air disaster well or did they just not fluff their lines as everybody was expecting and behaved like adults and surprised us all?

I rather think it was just an example of correct behaviour for a change and we took it for something else, sort of like taking the kids to a wedding, expecting them to upset the cake and as the bride where her old boyfriend was and they actually behaved so they got a Happy Meal on the way home.No it wont. The Senate know this budget and government stink and smell blood. 
The senators know they'll be re-elected if they stick to their guns because of the hatred most people have towards this whole government and what it's attempting to do.

Jackie Lambie understands average Australia for eg regardless of where you stand which her personally.
Her attitude towards Hocky will get her re-elected with an increase and others will see this in the polls and follow suit.

It can only go down hill for the gov from here/You're possibly right, I'm not a fan I'm just saying that to some degree I think all of the independents will behave more or less the same way towards the gov because it's a vote winner.

They sense the unpopularity of the gov and budget and are positioning themselves that way.

Being seen as being on the gov's side is career limiting.
Well said.
I used to have respect for the Libs because you need balance.
You need it in the Senate and you need it in society.

This bunch are not of the Australian experience politically speaking and aren't a balance, they're extreme and create hate.
This government have created a dangerous turn of events that hopefully will be repaired from within the Libs which is ultimately for the good of the country and I say this as a self confessed Labour man.Murdoch is an American regardless of where he was born and what he says and he's in favour of the tea party and how it behaves.

He's in a position of being able to try to make things go the same way here and it doing all he can to bring it about.Brian are you serious?

It is a terrible budget that the gov doesn't want looked at too closely because to do so highlights just how bad it is for the country.

The Senate is doing it's job, this gov got in place though lies and deceit and the Senate is holding them to account as it is intended to do.At the rate the gov is going the Clive Palmer Party may not have the insignificant support of which you speak next time round.

Personally I think that's a bad thing but I'm not pushing people that way because of lies and rotten budget.You know, I can't help thinking that bad Prince John Abbott has taken over the kingdom and the cigar smoking sheriff of Nottingham Hocky is visiting us all one at a time.

We really do need the Senate to force a DD and make this place Australia again.Yep, that's about the extent of it.I grew up in that era too, payed 18.5% for my mortgage, work was almost impossible to find and I can tell anybody that this mob is a total disaster to this country.
Many weeks I had no money left by payday and this was in the days before credit cards.
I have a job, work hard and absolutely do not want to see this stupid work for the dole 40 job applications a week nonsense to ever see the light of day.

What I do want to see is industry returning to this country. We need this because no matter how hard you make it for the unemployed they wont find work that isn't there and for the most part it isn't there.

The jobs are in China, India even the USA again but no industry worth speaking of here.

The debt in $$ we now have as a country is because the previous gov protected us from the GFC which I had first hand experience of over seas yet when I returned here found no evidence of to the point that Australians didn't know what all of the GFC fuss was about.

Spending that money saved jobs, many of which are now gone simply due to this government's policies. 
No cars to be made here. Looks like no subs either. No aluminium. Basically Australai is closing shop unless you're a coffee shop or mine or farm.

To return the economy to a surplus you do not need to vilify the poor, sick and unemployed but you do need to vilify them to direct the ire of people who are not in that category to allow the gov to try to make stupid changes to the fabric of society as this gov is.

It is a smoke screen. 

The main thing is splinter society, direct hate towards a group and make sure you're not one of that group except sooner or later you are.

They are creating emergencies out of nothing and are intent on destroying this country that we know as Australia.

This is an excellent article and if the Senate does pass these measure there will a massive shift into a world that we do not want as a country regardless of where you currently sit on some of these policies beyond thinking that they don't affect you personally.

It is unbelievable that a travesty such as this government can be foist upon us considering how many lies were told to get into power.

  

Mack1 you missed a great article.

You can't apply for jobs that don't actually exist.

Dissenter is on the right track.
You don't want less than 5% unemployment because it keeps wages in check.
The gov is in no way coming up with policies that encourage jobs, on the contrary there are fewer jobs all the time due to industry closing up and moving off shore.

If you can't get the dole, have to bang your head against the wall looking for what jobs there are wages will fall because you have to take whatever there is.

Even if you say that's fair enough there still aren't enough jobs and without the dole there will be serious crime make no mistake.
Under 30 year olds without any money at all but rent to pay, food to buy, families etc wont politely cogitate in their spare time when not doing community work FOR FREE for the first 6 months and doing 40 applications for non existent jobs on the "rationality" of how this is supposed to improve the country, they'll do whatever it takes.

It's a total disaster for everybody and it's completely un-necessary because there is no emergency other than in certain politicians minds. The emergency isn't that there is an emergency the emergency is they are mad and they're running the place.Be complete lunacy to arm them.

As long as they're harmless they'll prob be OK, give them guns in a war zone and they're just another armed group and they may well die.

Good idea to send some cops there to basically be witnesses of what happens there but to suggest they need guns...this gov needs brains.I've lived in a place where no money translates into high crime and it'll happen here.
It's extremely easy to fall into and almost impossible to control once it takes hold.

This is terrible policy for Australia.Damn right, it is all about the budget, as it should be!You're right.

Do the gov really think that all of these under 30 year olds without any income regardless of why they may find them selves without work will just follow the bouncing ball that the gov is trying to outline by doing community work that will likely provide nothing as far as getting a real job goes or that there will be a sudden flowering of small business by these people who have no other means of supporting themselves?

This is crazy. This will cost heaps to try to do, will achieve none of the stated targets because weeding public places or whatever else they have in mind wont help anybody find a job and will cause a lot of kids who currently wouldn't dream of stealing or drug dealing to take it up for lack of finding any other means of finding money.

The federal govs policies are ruining industry yet they are taking the big stick to the people who have nothing to do with this yet have to deal with the fallout.

This is exactly why England transported crims to Australia.
People found themselves in the impossible situation of stealing to survive, the crime rate rose to the point that almost everybody was a crim in one way or another and the goals became overcrowded.

Is this what we want here? Because this is where it's headed.

How are your kids going to survive if they themselves out of work?
Will they move back home, how do you get along with your son's wife and kids?
Don't think you'll ever be out of work, don't have kids, I'm alright Jack? Forget it, make sure you have steel bars on your windows.
Got to ask:
What are these jobs?

What paying jobs are these work for the dole jobs going to take away?

Why is the gov determined to encourage industry to leave Aust, by allowing the car industries to fall over and buy subs from over seas etc yet demand the unemployed search for what in reality are non existent 40 jobs a week?

Are they serious? I'll take that back, are they mad?Prof,

Basically I agree with most of this but Howard didn't ever gain respect from people who didn't already like him as much as he gained the reputation for having animal cunning which isn't the same thing.
I seem to recall his government as being "mean and tricky".
Considering what passes for gov in Queensland right now that's the obvious way to handle things.And it's as easily shot down.Actually that's not quite true but we aren't as important as we like think.
Point remains though that when we do have to make ourselves know we look a laughing stock these days.I think it was actually Tolstoy who first made remarks about the leader following those he leads if you know hat I mean.

Tolstoy says of Napoleon's invasion of Russia that he Napoleon not decide to lead the Grand Army there but rather they decided to go and he had no choice but to lead them there.

I have had to condense what he wrote, it was War And Peace after all.This isn't Yank bashing but with the US as an example of the problems society has when there is basically no social conscience built into gov policies or people's attitudes then compare how basically happy most Australian's are is it any wonder so many people have responded so negatively to this "I'm alright Jack" budget?

Even most of those who consider that from their personal point of view nothing much would change and I am one of these know in their bones that this budget is essentially bad for the fabric of Australian society.  

I can't quite put my finger on if it's that in the back of everybody's mind there is the thought or even fear that everybody will some day be at the rough end of the worst of these budget measures or if it's simply a case of this just isn't right or fair and it's not necessary to be so harsh on those who can least do anything about their situation.

Whatever it is, it's good to see that what I think the gov hoped and counted on, that being that large parts of the community would back them against easy soft targets like the unemployed, single mums, pensioners, disability pensioners etc seems to not have happened and hopefully the gov is smart enough to rethink things, if it doesn't then hopefully we'll have a DD election and reboot the gov.

The gov has definitely misread the people of Aust and I don't really think that any elected Aust government should see its role as re-engineering society in it's own image against the will of most of the people especially as has been said over and over that this gov lied to gain power and does not have the support of the Senate.The problem I have with this is that the guy made a sweeping statement involving "the poor".

Who are "the poor" according to these guys anyhow?

Are they the lazy layabout dole bludgers, single mums and disability recipients they seem to be fixated on, are scum to them anyhow so who cares?

Are they the working poor who have to drive often quite long distances to work because there is no public transport?

Are they people earning less than $30,000, $50,000 or $100,000 a year?

Who are "the poor" in the eyes of these people?

If "the poor" can't afford to own a car or drive very far why are they making life even tougher for them not so much in this excise but the budget over all?

What is going on in the minds of these people?You're absolutely right.

I was in the US and Britain during the worst of the GFC and it was grim.
Got back home thinking it was going to similar and guess what? Nothing. People still in work, still going about things like nothing was happening GFC wise.

People here had no idea about the bullet we dodged and it was all due to the way the excellent way economy was handled.

I notice it's common for people to say, well that was because we had mining to save us and so we did.
The gov had the nouse to know and understand that this was to our advantage and it would be a major part of getting the books balanced again.
Is it smart to ignore an advantage?

Howard used the mining windfalls to pay for all of the middle class welfare that's supposedly causing problems now.
Was it OK to throw the money around then?

For those who like to equate the economy to a household's budget which is wrong but people like to anyhow consider what the gov did at that time to put the bills on the CC so we didn't have to sell both cars and washing machine and hire out the kids to meet the bills knowing with the certainty which was right that the world would recover sooner or later and we could pay the CC off then.

What Labour didn't factor in was having abbot get in, convince some people that keeping the country steaming along during the GFC was somehow a mistake and we now have to rip and tear the economy and society to fix the "emergency" that isn't.

What we need is a steady hand on the tiller. Not social engineering under the guise of fiscal management.
Perhaps where you work, not here.AE,

sounds like you're in an industry and working for a company that works within industrial law and have a good OE company policy and it works for you.

The problem is that there are so many small places that are dealing fast and loose with the regs and have no OE policy that protects its staff.
I don't know what the penalties are for companies that don't follow the rules but they can't be that harsh because where I'm working they've over stepped the rules a number of times.

The 457s simply wont tell you what they're paid. They've been told not to under threat of being fired.
Word gets out via loose talk from payroll but I can tell you they're working for a LOT less than you could get a qualified Aussie to do the same job for.

Add to that these guys work 6 days a week without penalty rates, are terrified of taking time off sick and because they aren't ever up to scratch with the quality of the work they do for at least a few months of starting here and they're gone again when the visa runs out they have to be cheap to make it worth while for the company because they keep doing it.

Now there are hundreds of out of work draftsmen and engineers so it's laughable to say the country needs to get 457s to fill jobs.

So maybe in large organisations like mining the regs are followed but who knows how many small places are taking advantage of 457s to the detriment of Aust jobs?
There must be thousands.

All of this is OK provided when you loose your job there is a safety net there to keep the wolf from the door until you find another job.
But to have polices that are causing massive job looses, no new jobs being created, the prospect of looking for stupid numbers of non existent jobs at the same time as working for the dole and no dole at all for under 30 year olds is insane when we have 457s taking jobs.

Taken jointly 457s and these draconian measures team abbott want to implement the one and only outcome can be lower wages and standard of living for everybody in the end and it's deliberate.
AE,

you're making the basic mistake most people in mining make, I did too at the time and that is that if you don't see an immediate return on a bucket of dirt there is no value.

The car industry supports a lot more industry than just cars.

Loosing the associated industries will cost a lot more than the money being put into it.

One of the nice things about age is you see these things happen a few times and know it when you see history repeating.

I used to work for BHP in the 1970's and made lots of money while the gravy train was going but the second it stalled the mining industry retrenched most of it's staff.

First they closed the steel mills due to Chinese steel,  then they fired the exploration staff then the miners.
It'll happen again, you can bank on it.

If all the money is in mining at the expense of other industries which it is what will you do then?

I was lucky because we used to make things so I just got into other industries, worked for some places, did my own thing, got back into working for the man in engineering but now 457s are everywhere I look in this field and we now have kids applying for the jobs we have here and being passed over no matter how good they are because they cost more the the 457s even if they aren't supposed to.

There are all kinds of reasons we should be concerned, this budget is among them because problems are on the horizon and these polices are just going to make things needlessly extremely tough, especially for the younger kids but it's not the only problem.
I work in a place where there are large numbers of 457 Visa workers.
It's a total rort. There are people working here who keep track of them and report it.
Every once in a while the 457's get sent back home but somehow the company just keeps being able to do it again and again.
Personally I like most of the guys doing this but they really aren't up to the standard of the locals whose jobs they're taking.

The company is making money too but it's been able to convince the powers that be that it needs to use 457's to fill positions which is a total lie yet as I sit and write this I'm in an office with 3 of them.

It's a total rort. There are more than enough people resident here to fill these positions, maybe not in all industries but certainly there are a LOT of out of work draftsmen and engineers around these days but it's much cheaper to get in 457s.  

This is just one place and we have about 30 457s, how many jobs are out there?Glad a 457 has piped up because I must say I have nothing against the individuals working under these, they're legal and they're doing what they have to to earn a living but I DO resent the practices being used by the employers that I know of and I wish you PP good luck in what you are wanting to achieve.

Personally I think we should allow easier residency that 457s because then all the people involved have a vested interest in the country.Dapsta,

there's the way it's supposed to work and there's the way it's done.

I've written this a few times on this blog but will one more time.

The industry I'm in has a gross excess of well trained, experienced lets call them residents.
There is no need for 457s to fill vacancies. None, zip.
Yet in my office alone there are 5.
In other offices in the same site there would be another 10 or so.
The place I work for isn't known for paying well, nor is it very concerned with Australia because it's not an Aust company and makes no secrete of the fact that it would like to not be here but must for regulatory reasons.

If it cost less to hire a resident they would because it costs less (but it doesn't) and they would spend almost half the time the visa is good for in training but they do.

Part of the advantage of 457s is the conditions they're prepared to work under.
Do you work 6 days a week every week for the same rate of pay?
Are you afraid to take sick days? 
Do you take leave in convenient blocks of time?
Do you consider it reasonable to be called back to work when on leave to tell the boss something he could have waited for or used the phone?
Do you work holidays?

So it's not hyperbole, be nice if it was.
They're not being paid the same and it does get reported.
That's why I know it's a huge rort.
The 457s just disappear, there is a big deal made for show about it not happening again and in a few months it's happening again  and so it goes. Been like this for some time now.

For fear of legal action against me I wont say who this company is but they're just the one I work for and know it's happening.
Impossible to believe this is an isolated event.

I will say the 457s are draftsmen. I will also say there is a huge number of out of work draftsmen in the region because TAFE was knocking out lots of them because apparently industry was saying there weren't enough which just goes to show what happens when you listen to the wants of industry too much so it's rubbish to suggest they are filling a shortfall.

They do work for substantially less and that is the reason they're being used.
Their standard of work in this particular case are a lot lower than here so it's not a quality thing. It's cheaper, they work longer hrs and the gov sees it was a way of driving down wages and conditions as far as I can tell.No, I agree with Alpo.
The jobs are being shed but none created.
The jobs that exist more than you may think are *prob* being filled by 457s.

The gov knows exactly how many 45s there are yet we're being told on one hand there are too many people on unemployment and the answer is to apply for somewhere between 20-40 jobs a week and do work for the dole.

IF they removed the 457s they may have a point but as it stands all they're about is driving down wages.
If you have cheap 457s and force people to take any job going regardless else you're cut off entirely and if you're under 30 you're in it deep no matter how you look at it all that CAN happen is wges will be driven down and the standard of living overall.

I know people will come out and tell me it's about time we lived within out means but that's such a lame response that's said with thinking slogan style.

We can achieve good result without the dramas this lousy gov is trying to foist upon us.
457s are a great start.

It's all about social engineering abbott style and it's not where we want to head.That was a big error on their part.

I don't have a problem with immigration. My problem is with the 457s. I know they're being rorted and are driving down wages.

Couple this with the policies this mob are wanting to pass the budget and this is a bad situation especially for under 30 year olds.I'm employed, have been unemployed too.
Also worked for myself.
Much worse being unemployed and I have absolutely no problem with helping out those in need.

Nobody at all wants to be long term unemployed. It's boring, you never really have enough money and it's not the paradise on earth some parts of the population and this gov have managed to convince themselves it is. 

Hate to say it but according to team abbott it's supposed to be "Team Australia", in the country I grew up in we do that here.

It's well worth remembering that pretty much everybody reading this is getting something from the gov by way of child payments, unemployment, health, education or tax breaks.
No matter how each of us justify whatever it is we're getting those who aren't will say it's unfair and it's all being paid for every single one of us. Even the unemployed when they buy their goods and services INCLUDING smoke and booze.

So lets stop the nonsense, accept that there will always be unemployment, there has to be in a functioning economy and make sure those who need it get what they need by way of the dole or whatever until they get a job.

In the case of disabilities leave them alone and let each one work things out as they must, they have more than enough to deal with already.Unemployment is absolutely necessary.

If full employment were achieved there would be no brake on upward movement of wages.

When employment is high as it is becoming now the reverse is true and wages are held in check or reduce in real terms or conditions decay.

I am not sure if this is the right figure but I believe the ideal is 5.5% unemployment.
That seems to be the happy balance.

That is why I am so alarmed at what the gov has in mind with no dole for under 30's work for the dole, 20-40 job applications a week or you're cut off.

If unemployment rises much more and looks like it will when these slated closures take place the knock on effects are felt  AND the 457s wages and conditions will have to  be driven down because people, especially under 30 year olds will be forced to take any job at any price or be destitute.
 
The thing I hasten to add about the 5.5% unemployment level is that that is not ideal for long term unemployment, simply the ideal employment pool to draw from for the economy to function in a reasonable state of equilibrium.

Ideally if you find your self in the 5.5% that level is not too high to find employment again.
That's the theory and it's prob not too wide of the mark.

We're setting up a real life laboratory now, with unemployment at 6.5% and set to rise and work or die policies on the horizon we'll see what happens with wages and conditions.My basic instinct, my DNA I guess you could say is that I cannot trust this gov for half the distance that I can comfortably spit a watermellon.

It sounds like they aren't too sure of what it is they're wanting to collect and exactly why which is bad enough but what's worse is that they *may* know what they're wanting to do but have either explained it badly or deliberately kept the details confusing and slight. 

It's a bad situation and trust isn't something these guys deserve a lot of.APM,

I don't mean this to be a personal attack towards you but you need to learn how the "system" works.

Perhaps you live in Queensland where there is no Senate so I'll explain very briefly.

The Senate is a part of parliament. It's also called The Upper House.
Where the PM sits is called The Lower House.

Both houses are part of the system and both are every bit as elected as each other though how they are elected and the terms they sit for are different.

Considering the lies Abbot told to get his back side where he now sits all but the most dyed in the wool LNP supporters would have to say that the Senate has a great deal more legitimacy than this gov and the Senate has a mandate to block this budget because its role is not that of a rubber stamp. 

Both houses have equal powers except in the case of a money bill which the Senate is not allowed to initiate.
Both houses have the ability to block a bill brought to them from the other house.
You may not like this but that's the way it is, always has been and hopefully always will be.

The last gov did not have control of the Upper House but was able to legislate so it can't be said that a gov which does not own the Senate can't legislate but it does have to be functional and willing to deal realistically which are qualities entirely lacking in this gov. 

The Senate are blocking this budget not out of spite but because most of the senators want to be re-elected and know this budget is on the nose.

There is no emergency so nothing to justify saying one thing to be elected and trying to do another as this budget does, there is just bloody mindedness on the part of the gov.

The gov has to get a budget in some form passed while on the one hand it says it'll talk but on the other refuses to come to terms with the fact that this isn't going to pass the Senate in its current form.

If the Senate believed most people supported it they'd vote that way because as you yourself say PUP is populist which I would take as meaning they do what is popular?, the Greens wont talk because they aren't stupid and Labour wont support what is pretty much the worst budget ever to have been conceived in Australia.

So that only leaves the gov to get real and either alter this budget to something that will pass or we go down the path of a DD which is where it ultimately has to go the way things are heading.
If the gov takes that path it only has itself to blame because it will have miscalculated at every stage of the game.

And that's how the system works.Except that in all probability the reason Labour (for instance) had the majority in both houses would be that most people approved of what their policies were about.

It also assumes a certain maturity on the part of the government.

Neither case applies in this case so it's a good system that is seen to be working so far.

Be very interesting to see what kind of Senate we get next election since this is the first time many people would even notice the existence of the Senate and its workings for some time.

Will people approve of the horse trading type of Senate made up of licorice all sorts as now or the stability of the Big 2 parties?

It will all depend on if PUP end up getting what they want from the gov if it means changing their minds on their current position or do they stay the course of public opinion as they are now and how people ultimately feel about it?
Sounds like an American list of how senators voted during their careers.

This isn't cricket. The spats don't mean anything.
Blocking or passing a bill is all to do with the bill in question not how a party has historically voted.

This particular budget and its passage or otherwise through the Upper House will get a of strange results if you look to stats.

I'm hopeful that Shorten is like Crean. In some ways a little uninspiring in a popularity sense but a good solid performer in the end.
I think it's what we need. The search for a leader with flair has just had us go through the Rudd MkI and MkII, Gillard who I actually liked and think had a bit of a raw deal in many ways but that's politics and now this fellow abbott.

Personally I don't care what sex the person is, what background I just want a capable leader who is in touch with the real world and isn't dead set on re-engineering society no matter how much we try to say we don't want it.I just don't think our expectations are very high so what can non performers loose in the eyes of their boss?
As long as they keep banging the drum in support of abbott he'll keep them on.

You'd have to think there are an awful lot of nervous Nellies in the LNP ranks, more and more all the time I'd say.I find myself longing for the days when we had a government that just governed and a country that I feel at home in then I realize I used to have one until about a year back and something went badly wrong.

Even of you didn't like a single thing the last government did you have to admit it was normal.
This is something out Twilight Zone.More than ready for a rematch though. Abbot's punch drunk and on the ropes and Joe's sweating so much he needs the towel for himself.Brian,

this is a strange comment and can only have come from a seriously theoretical utopia of the type written of in Plato's Republic.

Why do we have to support a government else we'll have anarchy?
We wont have anarchy but if we don't do something what we will have is a broken society.

Of course we don't have to support a dud or bad government.

We have the means of taking "Unelection Action" to use an Abbottism and need a DD as soon as it can be engineered and get back to a functional government.Perhaps you should write an article so we can see what you'd come up with?It's always worked in the past.
He must be desperate for one about now.Was a time I prob would have agreed with this but that was back before I realized that economics is no science regardless of what politicians and economists tell you but is more black magic mixed in with large amounts of horse race mentality and printing money to save Aust from the GFC wont be the problem, never really was it's the corporations and the hold they have over the gov we have to be careful of.

It's they who cause these financial disasters then proceed to tell everybody what to do next which just impoverishes us and enriches them some more.

I'm not an economist so I don't know exactly what  fiscal responsibility is, I mean what it really is not what we're told it is but the people who tell us they have the answers are snake oil merchants and this gov is in bed with them so what do we do about this people?

A DD election is a good start.The Senate is a part of how government works here.

We elect senators just the same as we elect members of the Lower House. The way they're elected is different and they have different terms but they're just as legitimate and more so in this particular case because the senators didn't tell the outright lies those currently holding the majority in the Lower house did to get their back sides on the right side of the house.

As mentioned already, Queensland doesn't have a Senate so there is nothing to control the excesses of the government there, thankfully that's not the case federally.The reason things are so combative is the policies don't jibe with the promises told to us to get this gov elected.
The Senate see this and as well as the mistakes inherent in the budget and are reacting to it.

The Senate isn't supposed to be a rubber stamp to the gov, they're performing their job as intended.

BTW, both house have equal powers apart from originating a money bill. That's the reason gov is formed by the Lower House, it can do this while the Senate can't because it would be impossible to govern if both houses could raise money bills.
That being said in all other respects it is just as significant as the Lower House.
I read that article and have to wonder if it's true or if Joe is taking the flack?

I also remember watching Joe in an interview relating to Work Choices. He was the main head kicker to push that particular policy but in the interview he went on about what a bad policy it was, what a mistake it was etc and said he was surprised that many of his colleagues genuinely did not realize that work choices did make life difficult for many people.

Made me sit up and take special notice of the kind of bloke Joe is. Very capable of  doing a hard sell of something that he doesn't really believe in and does it with a straight face and much gusto.

Basically he's as bad as abbott he just doesn't look it.WP,

I'm sure you're right about that, I was more interested in Joe's behavior.
During the whole Work Choices mess he was extremely aggressive in its defense saying there would be no loosers, only winners etc and he was very convincing.

In the interview which was an ABC production after libs lost to Rudd trying to explain why LNP lost Joe made the comment that Work Choices was a disaster of a policy that went a long way to explain the loss. That he knew it was bad policy and how surprised that so many of the LNP didn't see the harm the policy was to people on the lower end of the scale depending on casual work etc because they were so out of touch.
They were the comments of a politician thinking of retiring.

I couldn't decide on if he was lying when defending the policy at the time or was lying at the interview but he was very convincing both times.

Having watched a lot of political interviews this one stood out as being worth remembering because it was a very good insight into Joe Hocky the chameleon. 

Considering we now have Joe the chameleon and Abbott the all politicians lie team is it any wonder the Senate is not co-operating.

Yes, all politicians lie but these two are breath taking in how much of an art form they've developed lying and deception to.

Better to just let this go through to the keeper.

What we don't want is yet more sexist commentary of the kind that Julia had to deal with.

No, it's OK for Lambie to make these comments as a Senator any more than a male commenting about women in a like way.

PR has probably gone too far but this kind of trash belongs in the pub not in parliament and like it or not those elected do have to at least pretend to have a brain.
It just means that in both questions asked a lot of people don't understand how the Senate works, or maybe Parliament in general that's why there are so many "don't knows."

It's not that hard but it is trickier than just considering Parliament to be nothing more than a two horse race first past the post wins all.

Essentially as long as it's compulsory voting and most people vote for who they want the system will just work.

If people don't like any of the major parties and vote for lunatic fringe senators that's the system working too.
Hopefully there isn't too much damage done before the next election and people wise up and vote more realistically than "any body is better than X" which is what seems to have happened in the last election.

Possibly this is exactly what enough people do like in the senate now and even more lunatic fringe senators will be elected, that's something only time will tell.

If people like the way the senate performs and does prevent the gov from passing the worst of these budget measures then quite possibly Clive will have more mates elected, if on the other hand things really do devolve into a true three ringed circus we'll see more of the big two get a Guernsey.

That's how it works. Nothing to see out of the ordinary here.
That's a very well balanced take on things.

You could also add Can Do Campbell's QLD experience.
Unfettered power to pass what are pretty awful policies is what will get them booted out next election.

Had they had a little constraint they may not be in such a bad situation right now, not that that's a bad thing to my way of thinking.We definitely need the Senate.

Just look to Queensland to see why.I just really have to laugh when I read this stuff.

There is supposed to be some conspiracy of tree huggers against poor oil companies. 
Well if there's a conspiracy could somebody please tell me where I can sign up? because  if these guys can mix it with mining and oil companies they must have endless resources so must pay well.

Hands up everybody who knows somebody working for a mining company, OK hands down we all know somebody working for a mining company.
How much does this person get paid to drive a truck that sprinkles water over the dust or wash dishes? If you don't know I'll tell you, it's a LOT.
Mining companies have money to spend in giant truck loads and make tobacco companies look like like mum and dad enterprises.
If big tobacco has been able to obfuscate the issues surrounding smoking and health issues for all these years to the degree that apparently there is still some question as to if smoking causes cancer what sort of pr exercise can mining companies come up with? Massive come to mind.  

So who has the most to gain financially and has the deeper pockets, big mining or big trees? If you think big trees you're on another planet which must explain why you don't care too much about this one.The fact that as you say the rising price of electricity caused a reduction is usage is a very good argument for the carbon tax.

The reason the tax didn't work is it wasn't set high enough.

If polluters pass on the cost and we object then using the argument very much in vogue that market forces always prevail ergo an alternative to something that highly pollutes becomes viable without government handouts such as those being given to brown coal power producers in the Gissland Valley. 

Tax the hell out of the polluters and by definition us and get a better solution. They do exist, we just don't want to use them.To use another German word that describes the situation we're in is Zugzwang, google it.

Of course we don't have to be in this position, we just do what we know we have to do sooner or later and wean ourselves off coal.Anybody with more serious problems than the air we breath and water we drink must have some DAMNED serious problems!!!They can't understand it.

You see the attitude in comments on this and other blogs where the common refrain is that one theory is turned over by another in perfect regularity and that individual scientists who may not even be in the climate field disagree with a certain theory.

I think part of the problem is that people don't understand that this is the way it always is in science. 
In a previous life in the 1970's I worked in geology for BHP and I distinctly remember an extremely heated argument between the Snr geologist and the next senior to him over plate tectonics. The snr of the two refused to even discuss the theory. I remember at the time being amazed that the argument was still extant. The fact that an eminent geologist would not be convinced that plate tectonics was even worth considering is a good example of the sort of disagreements scientists can and do have individually but it doesn't change what really takes place, but it does affect policy.
Even if a certain body such as the CSIRO for example say that average temps have been rising all it seems to take is a single scientist to disagree for whatever reason those on the opposite side zero in on that descent and say the theory is trashed when in fact it's just a person like everybody else disagreeing for whatever reason.
It could be this dissenter is right and everybody else really is wrong but the preponderance of weight of many others suggest what the various climate bodies have determined based on the present evidence and observable phenomenon have no choice but to determine that human caused climate change is upon us and it will worsen.

The other part of the problem is that a lot of people think there is no reason why they cannot understand everything that science suggests by reading up on a few pages of easily digestible graphs etc and these people often are insulted when they are told they don't understand the science without understanding that many years of research and study usually go into these real scientific results and conclusions and the science itself may be beyond them without also studying the science.

As far as I can tell and I admit I don't read them all most of the anti human caused change reports are cherry picked easily digested often out of context sections of reports, often by people not specialising in climate field but possibly geologists or engineers to use two examples that I have read who are basically pushing their own beliefs.
In both cases it's very easy to see why an engineer and geologist may want more coal and oil to be used.

The other point is that non scientists or scientists not in the climate field can come up with any harebrained statement based on anything they can cobble together and there are no long term consequences to what they say whereas a scientist in the field for fear of losing reputation has to stick to what he or she can verify and whatever is said or writteThe Little Ice Age was a series of cold events interspersed by warm periods between the mid 1600's and the mid 1800's.

I don't see any attempts to re-write history on this.
There are documented accounts of people ice skating on the Thames during QEI's reign for eg.

They don't really know the cause for these events though volcanic activity, ocean current variation and solar radiation activity are all thought to be the causes.

In the case of volcanic activity there is a direct comparison between one of occasional massive eruptions and the constant output of the same gasses by humans. 

Snow Ball Earth was thought to be the result of constant eruptions that shaded the sun enough to cause a global freezing of the oceans.
Yes these are the same gasses that are greenhouse gasses but they were of such a volume that sun light basically didn't penetrate the atmosphere and the place froze from top to bottom, perhaps it super heated first due to the green house gasses before this happened?
Perhaps if we all just keep on as we're going we'll all find out.

Interestingly during the grounding of all commercial aircraft after 9/11 and the sky was clear of contrails they found an increase of the pan evaporation rates around most of the world so cloud cover even when it's as slight as contrails doe's make a big dif to what happens here on Earth.

A change of ocean currents is also something we may well cause due to the melt of the polar caps. Reducing the salinity of the ocean will definitely affect ocean currents such as the Gulf Stream for eg. The Yanks would not be happy if the Gulf Stream failed, they'd have another super massive ice sheet where the Great Lakes now.

That only leaves solar radiation variation and true, not much we can do about that apart from try to not make things any worse than they would otherwise be.

So if you pick a period during this time and compared it to now it may have been warmer, pick another and it's definitely going to be colder but the trend is warmer now especially in the last 100 years since industrialisation.It's either ice accumulation or the last map survey was done with a theodolite. 
Considering most of the glaciers in the US are melting I'd suggest the theodolite user was in error.

The elephant in the room with these stats is the way they're presented and what the stats are.

You can have averages that move very little but have wide extremes within the same range.

Both sides of the argument will use which ever stats prove the case they're pushing.

It's important that people know what the real meaning of average is. It's the addition of all data divided by the number of entrys, it's not what most people intend it to mean which is the mode that being the number that occurs most often in a set of numbers or sometimes the median which is the middle number in a set.

It's important because the average temp is a good gauge but  it can hide the important information such as the extremes.

You could have a year with seriously low temps for a week that cause a lowering of the average of a year with otherwise higher than normal temps but not as extreme as the cold week for the rest of the year or visa versa.
Does one week of very cold really offset say 3 months of temps 2-3 degrees more than usual?
This is why stats are not to be taken at face value and why the subject of climate change is a tricky one.

What really matters is the average of the extremes but that's all a bit too hard to explain easily on a neat little graph.

The example of no warming for 17 years is a good case in point. Many of those years have been extreme to the extreme as far as high temps go as well as low temps yet the avge shows it's business as usual which is hasn't been.
I never voted for John Hewson but I must say this is an excellent article.
It's bang on with telling what the problems are with the major parties and why PUP is the dark horse coming up from behind that both parties need to take seriously.

My only concern is Clive himself. Is he the man of the moment or is he just so much posturing and lack of the right stuff when it'll really count? He's hardy a Don Chip.

Does Clive really care about boat people or pensioners?
Would he walk away from them and their need if the wind blew the other way?

True all politicians will do this but Clive does seem somewhat more of a loose cannon than most and that is worrying.

One thing's for sure, it's entertaining.I don't understand the point of the interview or the thrust of this article.
If the refrain was as the article says "I already knew" as most people prob did I have to ask so what of it?

Really, who cares? It's his life, let him live it as he pleases.The funny thing is Palmer looks a bit like and acts just like one of the characters from Game Of Thrones.

This is actually meant as a compliment from a dyed in the wool Labor supporter.They used to say that smoking has never been proven to cause cancer.

I don't quite know how that one was able to last as long as it did but you never hear that one these days do you?

In a generation when in the same was as we now all know smoking causes cancer the general population will also know human caused climate change is upon us and we will be reviled for our current inaction and deserve it in full.Billie, 
If you want to smoke and kill your self that's fine by me, but you're affecting the plant I live on and I do mind that.
The science connecting smoking and lung cancer isn't unclear BTW.

The nice thing about science is that we don't actually have to blunder along until we hit a brick wall full in the face as it were.

Happily for the most part science wins out over short sighted me first attitudes and sooner or later this will be true of human caused climate change even if you personally are able to ignore the science. 
I don't mind what people can blissfully ignore the facts, that's human nature as you correctly point out but regardless of how eloquently or emotionally an argument is put the fact is we're doing real damage to the planet, people who "just want to get on with it" presumably to continue to wreck the place are going to be stopped sooner or later because we "don't get it" as you put it and never will.  
Got it?Billie,

you clearly believe climate change will make you a winner since you'll be able to adapt while the rest of us all fall by the wayside.
Can you elaborate on how and why?In what way is the link between smoking and lung cancer unproven?

Is this a case of clinical studies casting doubt or just "nothing can truly be proved" stats?

All that shows is how complicated the problem is.
Nobody can accurately predict the weather more than 2-3 days ahead of time beyond knowing that fair weather always follows foul but that doesn't mean we have weather and know small changes in one part of the world can greatly affect another.

It's like I always say, if we *wanted* to warm the planet up, what would we do any differently to what we are now?Not just BOM, nobody can predict the weather more than a few days out.There is one: Hands over eyes, head down a hole.Billie, you seem to be more concerned with what the climate's doing than the climate panickers you hate.
If it really isn't a problem go back to sleep and wait for the problem to just go away.

Just reading what Lisa and Aaron are saying I think you're both arguing the same side of the same point.
Lisa is saying all science is theory, there are no laws because there is no such thing in science. Everything is up for further advances in knowledge and measurement etc.

The theories are based on indisputable observations such as the sun's apparent rise in the East and setting in the West, the same can be said for long term temperatures and pan evaporation rates and other dry stuff like that that help make climate models.

Calling a thing a theory in the true scientific sense is correct and is a very good thing.
A scientific theory isn't a wild arsed guess which is what religious types tend to consider them to be because they like laws that never change and aren't open to scrutiny and advances.

In the religious sense the climate will never misbehave because there is an all knowing caring super natural being out there looking out for us so we can do as we please and just get on with it but scientifically, theories will come and go, always improving on the last, never remaining the same because the info is improving as are the models as a result and that means they will change.

This is a good thing even if it is somewhat confusing to some people who like laws set in an a easy 10 step programme set in stone hidden under a burning bush or whatever.

Now, it would seem that humans are responsible for climate change beyond what would otherwise be taking place, if we continue it will worsen, it's a grand experiment that nobody really knows where it's headed and science can be very useful in determining what we should do from here.Well done. 
Would some please try to refute this. Bet you can't!Funny, I read of the shambles in the Senate today and commented to a work colleague that we've descended to politics Italian style.
It's good for a laugh, always interesting but no way to run a countryI rather think Palmer has cried rape a bit here.
He has the whip hand and is making sure abbott knows it for sure.
If abbott's mob agreed to absolutely everything Palmer came up with today he would still have done what he did because he's forcing the issue. He's managed to pretty much wield more power than the gov while being in charge of a minority and knows exactly how to squeeze the last drop out of the situation.

Personally I love to see abbott squirm because he lied and mislead to get where he is now and in no way at all does he have the mandate to make the kinds of changes this budget is calling for apart from repealing the carbon tax because it's one of the few things he actually went to the polls with.

The fact that according to the power industry themselves we're using less power largely due to power cost increases means that increasing the cost of power for whatever reason cuts use therefore carbon emissions too means that the carbon tax is actually a good thing for the air, that's market forces proving the tax concept works.
This is beside the point at this stage of the game though.

It's also very interesting that QANTAS is saying the carbon tax never really cost them anything anyhow so they don't want to cut prices is also indicative of the tax itself.
Is it the wrecking ball that abbott has been saying all this time or is it not? QANTAS say no yet attott says it'll save the average family $550pa overall, maybe if that family ran an aluminium smelter in the back yard but I somehow doubt it'll save me anything at all regardless of Clive's amendments.Geez no, none of this book learning stuff. 
Sorry but this is just wrong.
Nothing good that will be easily fixed will come of this mob unless most of the things they want passed in the budget are stopped.
It's a simple case that they did not even allude to the the measures they want passed in this budget beyond stopping the boats and repealing the carbon tax so there is simply no mandate for measures this stringent and this means that they cannot have a free hand to try to do as they please and cry foul when the Senate perform their function.

Senators are duly elected just as legally as those of the Lower House so what the Senate says is just as legal and representative as the Lower House.
 
The party holding the majority in the Lower House understand this, we the people should too, especially those who seem to think that the party that lies the best should be allowed to do what they like until they stink too much at the next election.

There is no disaster to fix yet but there will be if these measures are passed in the Senate.
Not only financial to begin with but social in a truly massive way because it'll be a complete change to how things are done here in this country.I've been thinking the same thing myself.

It's actually worse in the case of Gough because the CIA really did have a hand in making life tough for them.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nugan_Hand_Bank

I know it's wikipedia but there are a lot of independent sources that go much deeper into it if you're interested.

But I digress, if the media wasn't so blind eyed against the last government and happy to allow abbott to prattle on about stopping boats and scrapping the carbon tax and asked just what he had in mind one of two things would probably have happened.

1. They may not have made it into gov.

2. Had they made it into government they may have had a relatively easy passage of the budget because they could then argue that they had a mandate to do so.

As it stands they are so far a terrible government that show no sign of improvement that should never have got in based on the disconnect between what they said and what they now want and they absolutely have no mandate to try for the budget they want. 

The right wing media gave them a free ride and the dare I say it left didn't do enough scrutiny though there's a limit to what you can get from a guy who once wound up can only repeat "stop the boats" and "great big tax".I know this smacks of harking back to the good old days that never were but is society any better for the changes that have taken place economically?
I'm 52, I can remember filling the petrol tank of my first car and wondering how the hell am I going to keep this thing going if it costs $26.50 to fill because I think I was earning about $165 a week and rent was the princely sum of $60 a week.

I had a phone and TV and very nice stereo, not a lot more and I have to say I was actually very happy.
Most people were like that back then.

Now even the poorest people have at least one flat screen plasma TV, most prob have more each kid has a mobile phone, most houses have at least 2 PCs and the houses themselves are jammed full of stuff that lasts about as long as the packaging it comes before it's replaced by something else.

The 80's were a good time. The 90's were ok but we've really lost the plot since then economically in the pursuit of junk.
I know this has kept the merry go round going but there has to a limit.That is a long time to make an awful lot of mistakes and very bad decisions.
The role of the Senate is to do what it is doing now.
Some of them may be wing nuts but ultimately that's the system.
That's a big part of the reason only half the senate is up for elections in the normal course of events.
You have a hold over from previous elections so the entire parliament isn't made up of a current political mood at the time of the last election.
It moderates the mix of senators.
It's a very good system and as a rule only governments that are out of control or have lied their way into power complain too much about the way it's always been. 
Sort of like right now in fact.

I think the idea is that if you confess your sins it's OK.Isn't it time for a DD yet?I agree totally.

One thing I initially thought when I saw Palmer in full flight was that perhaps he isn't as mad as he seems.

Abbott did pretty much nothing at all while in opposition other than say no and bang on about turning back the boats.

Now, he clearly had a lot of support as far as turning back the boats because it's in large part why he got in.

Many would say he's achieved his stated goal, I really don't know because we're not told but personally I don't care about the boats. Sooner or later we have to come up with a working humane solution and I' don't mean the Pacific Solution that to me any how sounds uncomfortably like Hitler's Final Solution but maybe that's just me.

Now it stuck me that Clive banging on about Chinese invasions and shooting their own people and having no law is really going to appeal to a lot of the same people that Abbott appealed to while he was still doing the only job he ever had that he did well, that of opposition leader.

Clive and Abbott are basically both peddling their wares from the same side of the street and people a bit sick of both major parties will prob just like Clive all the more for what he's said.

Taken on the face of it in the same way as Smokin Joe can saw with accuracy that poor people don't spend as much in fuel as the rich though it completely misses the point Clive basically told the truth.

China's communist.
In China you're basically guilty until proven innocent.
They shoot a LOT of people each year as criminals and harvest their organs.
They do want to buy large tracts of the country and use Chinese to work the places which is an economic invasion.
The time may well come that we end up in a real war with China which is why Japan is re-organizing their military apart from the threat of N Korea who China are the only friends of.
The Chinese gov runs large companies and treats these business almost as military organisations which is why executives can wind up in prison or shot for what the gov see as beaches of their idea of corporate law.
For the same reason the Chinese gov is behind large scale hacking of which everybody here may have been subject to though we have bee care of the US and the Aust gov too in all probability. 

It's perhaps impolitic to mention these things but it's not far wide of the mark and many in the gov would have loved to have said simmilar.

Pauline said some outrageous things and people loved it.
Clive's just lifted the bar.

I wouldn't be surprised if the net result for Clive is he's probably increased his national vote for PUP by a few thousand votes to where he was last week.

I don't trust the guy but I don't think he's stupid.
He's populist, the Budget is unpopular so he's against it. For now I'm on on Clive's side. Let him rant, who's it hurting? The Chinese know the drill

The sticking point here isn't *exactly* what he said though he did say poor people don't own cars and if they do they don't drive very far.

The issue is really two points.

1. Is the attitude shown towards those who can't afford or prefer to not spend money on car ownership for money or other reasons.

2.  Is the complete incomprehension of the fact that thousands of people would LOVE to not have to drive everywhere but must because there is little public transport.
  
My household is a very good example.
2 of us work and a third has retired.
We have 3 cars. I'd really prefer to own just one but I live in the LaTrobe Valley for work reasons.
I live just up from a major highway that also has a train running along it but unless I set out for work at 6am and get home at 7:30pm it's impossible to connect the dots to take public transport involving a train then bus then a 3 mile hike to get from home to work so I realistically have to drive.
It's make me fit but frankly I have a life.

My partner has it worse because her work is  nowhere near the rail and there hasn't been a bus service to her work in years.

This is quite typical of the situation for most people who don't live in the CBD.

So what is poor?

Is it the destitute?
Is it a student?
Is it the working poor on less than $25,000PA? 
Is it somebody on less than $50,000?
Is it somebody on less than $100,000?

Is it somebody younger than 30 and no job, no dole and has to work for nothing? YES!

Is it somebody older than 30 and has to work for the dole and get there? YES!

That's why smokin' joe has received so much flack.Amazing but they've managed it.

Giving too much to business is what's done it.

For some reason it's OK to give a LOT of money away to multinationals in various ways who then often end up taking the money off shore and not pay enough tax but begrudge giving to the disadvantaged who then go on to spend almost all they get within Aust. 

Had to laugh at "twiggy's " comments about drinks and smokes and basically take control of people's lives if they're on any form of Social Security.

If you stop to think about it for a few seconds you realize that if a person on Social Security spends money on smokes and booze, almost all of this money is immediately returned to the gov by way of taxes.
From a book keeping point of view and this budget is nothing if not a book keeping exercise, you'd think the gov would be encouraging lots and lots of parties.

Tongue firmly in cheek of course.
Torrie is the right term especially for the extreme right direction these guys are trying to take things.

Bob Menzies, said he called it the Liberal Party  because it was  "a true revival of liberal thought". 

Just goes to prove that something may start out as one thing and end up as another, something we should all be aware of when it comes to the damage the current government can cause in a short space of time.
Nope, we have Torries too.

What we don't have is Whigs. Google it and see.

Interestingly I just googled torrie and this is what I got:
The word "Tory" derives from the Middle Irish word t?raidhe; modern Irish t?ra?: outlaw, robber or brigand, from the Irish word t?ir, meaning "pursuit", since outlaws were "pursued men".[4][5] It was originally used to refer to an Irish outlaw and later applied to Confederates or Royalists in arms.[6] The term was thus originally a term of abuse, "an Irish rebel", before being adopted as a political label in the same way as Whig.

Quite apt if you ask me.Yep, people were over Lab federally and in Qld.

In both cases we all found out that anybody is better then "insert the politician of choice here" isn't true.

HOPEFULLY in the next election people pay less attention to monosyllable hackneyed slogans such as those parroted by attott like some kind of ventriloquist dummy and more on what a viable alternative is and if the alternative isn't ACTUALLY better, not just different think first before casting the vote.Looks pretty bad for the LNP.

So, do they mend their ways and get real or carry on as they are and become last week's fish and chips wrappers in a DD election?

So far they've been pretty light weight in the brains dept.

It's hard to believe that this is an Australian government in the 21st century.

They told amazing lies that they seriously didn't seem to think they'd be held account for to get into power.

They completely misread the people thinking we'd decedent into the completely selfish collection of rabble that can be entertained by the bear baiting type spectacle of taking from  the old, the sick, the unemployed and needy because the people who count don't see themselves in that class and who cares what happens to them anyhow?  

The treasurer has shown his true spots with the Freudian slip of poor people not owning cars and that who do can't afford to drive them far. The Treasurer! 

The very man who should with good policies be creating work opportunists that can allow those same poor to have a realistic hope of enjoying any standard of life they wish to enjoy but are instead subjected to no support if they even not of their own fault find themselves out of work and are under 30 and those over are supposed to work for the dole while looking for work as well.

All of this is being portrayed as work experience when everybody knows it is really just cheap labor and one plank of ultimately driving down wages and conditions which must happen as a result of these ideas.

Wages and conditions MUST erode if you are forced to take ANY work at ANY pay else not see the dole for 6 months if under 30 and life is made very difficult for those over.  

One advantage of this were it to come to pass would be the resurgence of unions but that probably isn't what the LNP have in mind.

These guys have created a huge mess for themselves and thankfully the Senate see this and are doing their best to preserve the true AustraliaEven at work for the dole rates he'd be paid too much.You're right and yet people still say they can balance a cheque book better.

The belief is wrong but it persists, sort of like cane toads.The Chinese are nothing if not realists.
They know coal will do the heavy lifting in the short term but they also know if they keep using it at current levels they'll kill themselves with the results so they're planing on the future.

When this mob get the boot in a couple of years we can do the same as far as planning ahead, until then we have to endure this long winter of discontent of buffoonery and try to forget it as soon as possible other than to try to remember to never inflict a gov like this upon ourselves again.

I think the OS commentary was just being polite and spend as much time analysing the real situation here as you would Lichtenstein's for eg.

Abbot is a clown and the gov is truly hopeless as we all know and the G20 summit highlighted.Well, Tony was the guy who said he lies after all. The trouble is how do you tell when he isn't? I guess the easy answer is to just assume it's always.

I do that anyhow but I'm trying to reduce my daily dose of cynicism.Hopefully not just his first term but ONLY term.
If we're really lucky he'll be fired by his own party but now I'm just fantasising.
Only the tea party right wing nuts admire him for that. The rest have our sympathies.too true Yank,

I know Paul Keating predicted the fall of the Berlin Wall but I think his reasons were wrong.
The fact that it fell due to a series of unexpected events all taking place in such a way as the people controlling them handled then in equally unexpected human ways is a very good lesson on why attempting to predict these things is a waste of time.

Nobody ling at the time of the fall of the wall ever expected it to really come down even 2 days before it did, I'd venture to say nobody expected anything to take place that morning and look at the changes in the world that have taken place since.
All because a couple of individuals took a left turn when they just have easily gone right as it were.The Right Stuff is another good read about test pilots.I think you're reading too much into this.

In my earlier life I was a rock and mountain climber.
People think that's thrill seeking but the fact is some people's idea of acceptable risk is different to other's.

People who think this way find normal activities about as interesting as other's may find watching work championship bowling.

Mountaineers for eg need to do things that appear insane to just get the sort of enjoyment others find by perhaps bush walking which mountaineering is just an extreme form of anyhow.

Rescue people are more or less the same. You'll often hear it said that people doing hazardous things like climbing, or sailing in the Syd To Hobart yacht race which is also quite hazardous place rescuers in danger but I would suggest that you would be in more danger than it would be worth if you tried to stop these rescue people from doing what they enjoy because they too get their jollies in ways that you and others may well find unacceptable so it's all relative.

Test pilots love what they do. Let them do it and don't put too much into working them out. They just happen to enjoy doing what's required to allow everybody else to enjoy the relative safety of air travel. Some will die, that's a big part of the attraction for them.

No, we don't not try out of spite, we laugh openly knowing abbott is once again sprouting hyperbole as Mungo says and wait for a mature leader to take a mature look at the problem. 
Until then we wait. Less of a mess to untangle that way.
Things are being made bad enough as they are.Actually the coal industry is subsidised because the pollution which has a cost isn't costed to the producer.

Now if we could just tax the carbon that would all change.Drove past the Hazlewood coal mine at Morwell this morning on my way to work and noticed the coal fire that is still burning under ground seems to have reached the surface again and is smoking away well. Couldn't see to the bottom of the pit for smoke in fact.

Live next door to a bloke who operates a backhoe there. He told me the fires had to be dealt with a couple of weeks back. They excavated the batter to about 2m and had to stop because the temp was over 600c.

I wish tony and smokin joe lived in Morwell. They'd love it here.I was a kid nearing high school age when all of this was going on and even then Australia suddenly seemed like an exciting place to be and with a brave new world feel to the future.
I know going over to Metric wasn't Gough's idea but it just seemed to fit the times, then there was the end to VN for Aust, Medicare etc.

If Number 96 didn't give you enough thrills you had the Junie Morosi and and Jim Cairns show.

What have we got now? Tony "shirtfront" Abbott and Smokin Joe bumbling their way along keeping the seats warm for a real government to take over again.

We need another Gough for the big ideas but a sane government, ideally ALP will do in a pinch.

the CIA (seriously?)

Unfortunately yes seriously.

Easy to forget in a time before Ipods and mobile apps the 70's and 80's were cold war years and the Yanks found it impossible to make the distinction between a socially conscionable government and communism.

As far as the CIA were concerned the ALP were just on the pink side of full on red Stalinist supporters and Aust could have easily been another domino to fall in SE Asia.

Sounds ridiculous now but it how it was.
In the early 1980's I worked in a company who dealt with a CIA man who worked in a legitimate firm who we imported goods from from.

From what I could make out there are? (were?)spooks who let it be known that they work for secrete agencies so people can contact them. Apparently it's not all Max Smart secrete telephone boxes, you can just make a phone call to them.

Whatever the details I known for certain that this person worked for the CIA and he told me quite a bit about the general thinking of Australian politics as they were (mis)understood in the US in the 1970's and 1980's and it sounded like a completely different place to the one I was living in but it's what they thought and they acted on it.

He was involved in destabilisation of the ALP to some degree during Bob Hawk's time as well though I didn't press for details and he didn't offer them.

The CIA wasn't just involved in Panama, if they saw a way of making things advantageous to "friends of the administration" they didn't see any harm in helping them out. 

Read A Secrete Country by Pillinger. The person I knew and have referred to gets a guernsey in his book so I can assure you that much of it at least is 100% accurate.
You may be very surprised and somewhat discomforted by what you read in the book.

You mentioned quite a nice grab bag of reforms and initiatives that while were not original as you say were nevertheless non existent here before Gough who did make it all happen.

So yes, the left love Gough, rightly so, he was a man of big ideas and intellect that got things that needed doing done.

The right has JW Howard I suppose. 

Not quite a contest I'd suggest. He was a PM of rat cunning and a good politician but hardy one of vision who didn't come up with all that much to be overly proud of in 10 years.

You can't count Ming (Menzies), he's turning in his grave knowing what his party has become.

I won't mention the current PM's name in the same company. Even Howard suffering with a bad case of swine flu would be better than this guy.
Also worth reading:
A Secret Country - John Pilger3 years clearly wasn't enough for the effects of 23 years of life under Ming to wear off.

Gough couldn't actually walk on water but he came close.Point taken but be honest, would you rather being tall with all the problems you're having knowing that statistically taller people tend to get the better jobs and more luck with the girls (or boys whatever you like) than 5 feet and built like a brick you who what that could lift a piano unassisted?
The fact is this gov acts just like the bully boys who all hang around the tennis shed smoking at lunch time, or did back when I was at high school.
As a gang they were to be feared but individually not so much and ultimately they were out of their depth when they had to find their own way when they were finished school.

Can't help seeing the similarities.
I'm told there was a mention of unicorns though? I could be wrong here.That is true. The Yanks are laughing at us. That takes some doing.Can't help thinking the shirt front comment was made in the hope it hit the right key domestically, the Aust kangaroo boxing the Russian bear sort of thing that thankfully fell flat and also allowing Vlad a very reasonable excuse for not meeting tone which is prob what tone wants.
He's made a complete dill of himself and a face to face with Vlad can only be a negative for him (tone).

He escaped being at the Climate Change meet because for him to show in the face of all the other world leaders who know his opinions can't have been a comfortable though for him, nor is meeting Vlad.

The guy's dumb but he's not stupid.As far as I'm concerned the worse these bozos make things now the longer they'll be out when the election finally comes round so do your worst tone.By then the "stop the boats" will have become last years fish and chip wrappers because there will be a bread crumb trail of disasters leading to abbott for people to follow.
He's already history we just have to watch it unfold. It wont be fun but it will be interesting.I'm waiting for the next fed election before I make up my mind about all of this.

I can understand people voting for abbott et al as being an alternative to the last gov.
Here in Aust we were lucky enough to have never had such a bad government that their every move was a disaster so it's understandable that people would think one mob is the same as another but hopefully people have seen the error or their ways now and realize that you can have the gov you prefer, a gov you don't like but is capable and you can have a dog's breakfast which is what we now have.

If this mob get re-elected it'll be obvious that something about the system really is broken.Fully Agree T2. I had to get some money back from Medicare recently. When I was told I had to go to Centrelink I almost didn't bother expecting the worst but I was very pleasantly surprised.
The staff were extremely professional and it was all very efficient.

Anybody who ever wants to take a swipe at public servants need to take a look at the people at Centrelink first. 

If they can't get to you in good time it's not their fault from what I saw.Perhaps it hasn't come so far since Yes Minister.

If management numbers and costs have ballooned then maybe it's still a case of sacking the tea lady to save costs?
