VoR,

"What do you think would have happened to any plane flying at 11,000 metres anywhere over the US when their airspace was closed immediately after 9/11? "

We already know the answer to this question. US fighters targetted at least one commercial airliner in the hours after the attack on the WTC because its course could possibly converge with that of Air Force One. The plane's transponder was out of action (a surprisingly common occurance) and it was just lucky to enter a landing approach before the fighter pilots opened fire.

There have been plenty of incidents in which commercial airliners have been shot down or damaged while flying through war zones. There have been more than enough for us to be able to say that flying through war zones is a bloody stupid thing to do. But we still do it. We should stop before another tin of innocent people is shot out of the sky.Peter,

" the airliner was flying well within its rights at 11,000 metres"

And I am sure that this must be a great confort to grieving relatives.

I am not sure whether or not you have ever been in command of an aircraft but, if you had you would know that the primary concern of aviation is safety. This is particularly the case when you are talking about commercial operations and innocent, civilian passengers. The "law" comes second to passenger safety, and endangering passenger safety simply because it is legal to do so is still unacceptable.

I put it to you that:

*Malaysian Airlines executives would (or should) have been aware of the situation over Eastern Ukraine.
*A number of aircraft, including some flying at similar altitudes to the ill-fated airliner, had been brought down by BUK missiles over eastern Ukraine in the past few weeks.
*In the past, several civilian aircraft have been shot down over active war zones in similar circumstances to those encountered by Flight 17.
*European, US and Australian air traffic controllers routinely close airspace and issue advisory NOTAMs (notices to airmen) in response to volcanic ash clouds.

The simple fact is that air-traffic controllers should not have been providing aircraft with routes that took them through a war zone, and Malaysian Airlines should never have requested such a route in the first place. Had the hazard been an ash cloud instead of an active, shooting war, I contend that air traffic control would have closed the airspace immediately and airliners would be flying around the area.

Whether the failure to do so was the result of some dark and sinister plot by the Ukrainians to "manufacture" an incident, or simple commercial greed on the part of airline executives is largely beside the point.

If you stick your hand between two fighting dogs and get bitten, does it really matter which dog bit you? The trick is not to put your hand between fighting dogs. The same applies to flying airliners through war zones.Dave,

"Why must I do everyone's research for them?"

Well, if you want people to listen to what you have to say, you should be prepared to back up your words with some supporting evidence.

It is true that SOME airlines continued to risk the safety of their passengers by knowingly flying through an active war zone, but it is also true that many chose to heed the numerous warnings and to steer clear of the area. Their passengers are still alive. Their bodies aren't scattered through the sunflower fields of eastern Ukraine.

Ask yourself a question:

If the threat had been from a volcanic ash cloud rather than a shooting war, and some airline executive had ignored it and sent a plane stright through, and had the plane subsequently crashed, would be be blaming the volcano or the airline executive?

The tragic accident that claimed the lives of nearly 300 people was the result of a failure in aviation safety systems, The important task is to eliminate the possibility of repeat performances by finding the flaw in the system that led to the failure, and fixing it.

Conducting witch-hunts, running people out of town
on rails, pontificating in the UN - these things make us feel better. But what we really need to be doing is solving problems. Solving probelms is harder, which is why Tony and Julie are chest-thumping instead.John,

Spot on.

Simple fact is that, if you start a war, you also take responsibility for all the bad stuff that happens as a result of the war. You cannot possibly predict or control what is going to happen. But you can be sure that most of it will be what you don't want to happen.

The young sailor on the Vincentes was simply doing his or her job. But I would imagine that they are still haunted by the enormity and horror of the consequences of their actions, and I really feel for him or her. Nobody should ever be placed in that position. And whoever pushed the button that brought down MA17 will probably be feeling the same, and I feel for them as well. They were just doing what they saw as their job. From their perspective, the war in which they are involved is just as real and their cause just as right as any other in history. When they pushed the button, they had no idea that a civilian airliner, 14km off-course, had just blundered into their sights. All that they could see was probably a bright speck and vapour trail that looked very similar to the Antonov military transport brought down by their comrades just days before.

If there are two lessons to be learned from this tragic accident, they are:

1: DON'T START WARS and
2: DON'T FLY OVER OTHER PEOPLES WARS.Dave,

"Hundreds of commercial aircraft were in that particular airspace in the days prior to this event."

If hundreds of people survived running across a busy freeway with their eyes closed, would you give it a try? Would you advise your little sister to join the fun?

You need to understand the concept of risk management if you are to have any hope of making sensible comments on the subject of aviation safety. While the likelihood of any one person being struck by a vehicle while running blindfolded across a busy freeway is (believe it or not) surprisingly low, the consequences of just one occurance are so catastrophic as to make the risk of doing so unacceptable.

There were a few (not hundreds) commercial aircraft in the area over previous weeks, but many airlines (including QANTAS) had made the sensible decision to avoid the area. The question that must be asked is why Malaysian Airlines officials made a different decision.

It would be difficult to maintain that the decision to fly the airliner though an active war zone in which a number of aircraft had been shot down at high altitude was the correct decision. It was clearly the wrong choice. The only real question remaining is WHY that choice was made. Was it pure commercial greed, or where airliners allowed through the area in the HOPE that an incident such as this would provoke condemnation of Russia and greater support for Ukraine from the West?

Unfortunately, we will probably bever know the answer to these questions because we are too busy looking for scapegoats.burke,

Check out the fine print on your home insurance policy. You will probably find that your insurer has exempted itself from liability for damage caused as a result of war or warlike actions. Although I have no love of insurance companies (as I am sure that you will realise from my previous posts) I have no great problem with this.

Malaysian Airlines took a decision to fly their plane through a war zone. Had they asked their insurer before they did so for their advice, they would probably have been advised against it. In taking such a rash decision, I think that it is fair to say that Malaysian Airlines failed to discharge its responsibility to its insurers to do everything possible to minimise risk.

Whichever way you look at it, MAS and the Ukrainian authorities have a lot of explaining to do. Simply pointing out that opportunistic insurers are likely to (justifiably) refuse any claims made by Malaysian Airlines does nothing to diminish their responsibility for making such a disastrously wrong decision. If insurance companies rewarded such stupidity by paying out without question whenever someone's idiocy results in injury, none of us could afford the premiums.Phil,

"So hardware was provided to people (rebels) whom have proven that they didn't really have the knowledge or ability to avoid misusing it."

Yes, that is the sort of thing that happens in war. This is why it is generally considered prudent to fly around, rather than over, war zones.

"The aviation authority was unaware that Russia had supplied weapons with this capability to the rebels."

What, you are trying to tell us that they were living under a rock and hadn't heard the news for the past 12 months? In the weeks leading up to the incident, a number of Ukrainian aircraft had been brought down by BUK missiles in the area in question. There is only one way in which the "aviation authority" could have been unaware of this and that is by being on a different planet.

"The hardware wasn't supposed to be there"

BUK missiles are used by Russia and Ukraine (and several other countries nin the region). My own personal feeling is that there is no proper place for such weapons but we have to accept reality and the reality is that these weapons exist, and there are lots of them in the Ukraine, Russia and elsewhere. There is nothing special about BUK's. They are simply a medium-range anti-aircraft missile. There are many types, but I really don't think that many passengers gave much thought to the question of the type or nationality of the missile as they hurtled toward the ground.

A few years ago. an Iranian airliner was blown out of the sky soon after takeoff by a young sailor on a US warship. The sailor was well-trained and equipped with the latest, state-of-the-art hardware. He or she had access to sophisticated surface-to-air missiles and the support and guidance of experienced, well-trained officers to fall back on. But the passengers of the Iranian flight are just as dead as those on the Ukrainian flight.

The problem is not that the weapons were in the wrong place, or even existed at all, but that someone made a very bad decision to fly a commercial airliner through a war zone.

I have no sympathy for Putin or Russia. Putin is a thug and Russia is a gangster state. But the downing of Flight 17 had nothing to do with Putin or Russia. It was caused by a bad decision, made in the perfect safety of an office in Brussels, Kuala Lumpur or Amsterdam, to fly a tinful of people across an active war zone. If we are serious about improving safety in the skies, we must take steps to make sure that the same mistake is not made again.Horrocks,

"I think you will find there were several other airlines in the area at same time, including Singapore and Air India."

And there were even more who weren't because they had decided to put the safety of their passengers before profits.

Look at it this way. The bosses of Malaysia Airlines (and Air India and Singapore if you insist) had a choice. They could take a calculated risk and save some money, or they could put the safety of their passengers first. Other executives in other airlines chose to favour safety. Their passengers are still alive.

The executives from other airlines who also decided to put their passengers lives at risk, but who got away with it, must be counting their lucky stars at the moment. Their passengers are still alive and nobody is likely to come after them demanding atonement for their recklessness with the lives of others. But they are just as culpable.

In aviation, safety must ALWAYS come first. In general, pilots will always choose safety over cost-cutting because if they get it wrong it is them that collides with the planet at high speed. The executives and desk-jockeys who plan their routes from the safety of an office have a different agenda and, unfortunately, the only way to focus their minds on safety is to increase the FINANCIAL risks of a disregard for safety to unacceptable levels.Noah,

"These missiles effectively take out aircraft and flying objects at up to 70,000 feet. Why on earth did the authorities at Malaysian airlines and the pilot who ultimately signed off on this route do so"

Yes, this is the really important question.

A few years ago, much of Europe's airspace was closed by a volcanic ash cloud from an Icelandic volcano. Governments and air-traffic controllers took the decision to close the airspace because they were aware that volcanic ash plays havoc with the finely-machined internals of a jet engine and could cause engine failure which could cause the plane to crash. While the likelihood of any one plane crashing as a result of volcanic ash is probably quite low, the consequences of a single crash are so potentially catastrophic that the risk generated by attempting to fly through volcanic ash is unacceptable.

Flying civilian airliners through active war zones exposes the passengers to the risk of being shot down either deliberately, accidentally or mistakenly by one of the warring parties (or both if you are very unlucky). Again, the probability of any one plane being shot down on any one flight is probably quite low. But the consequences of a plane being hit by a missile are INVARIABLY catastrophic. Engine failure caused by volcanic ash MAY cause a crash, or may result in a successful emergency landing. Hitting an airliner with a surface-to-air missile WILL cause a crash - there are no ifs or buts about it.

The consequences of a crash caused by engine failure and a crash caused by missile strike are roughly equal - a lot of dead people. But, while a crash is one possible outcome of engine failure, it is the INEVITABLE outcome of being hit by a missile.

So, one would expect that air traffic controllers and European governments would react to the danger of an airliner being hit by a missile with even more urgency than they would to the danger of volcanic-ash-induced engine failure. The real question is why they didn't in this case.Dave,

"So, yes, if Russia behaves awfully they will be able to cite a historic precedent by the US."

You miss the point entirely. This is not a question of who is the baddies and who is the goodies.

It is really quite simple. Aviation has some inherent dangers - high altitude and high speed being primary among these. Aeroplanes are much more likely to deliver you safely to your destination than they are to kill you, but there is still a need for a studious and responsible approach to air safety.

One important rule is not to attempt to fly a jet-engined aircraft though a volcanic ash cloud. Nobody has ever been killed by doing this and, as far as my researches can tell me, there has never actually been a crash caused by volcanic ash. But a few scary incidents involving BA and KLM alerted aviators to the danger and air traffic controllers now routinely close airspace affected by ash clouds just in case.

Another important rule is to avoid being shot down by missiles. Generally this is a pretty easy rule to obey. All you have to do is steer clear of war zones and the probability of your plane being struck by a missile virtually evaporates.

Over the past decade or so,  air traffic controllers have become very good at stopping airlines from risking disaster in ash clouds. Whether this has actually saved any lives or not is debatable, but it would be difficult to deny that, had jet airliners continued to fly through ash clouds, one would eventually hit the ground before it could restart its engines. I find it difficult to understand why the same approach cannot be taken with regard to war zones.

I don't think that it really matters to air crash victims whether the crash was caused by a missile, bird strike, microbursts or volcanic ash. Being dead probably diminishes the urgency of these questions somewhat. Just about every major airport now has doppler radar to warn aircraft of microburst activity. We have protocols in place for stopping airliners from being downed by volcanic ash. And nearly every airport has some sort of system in place for scaring away birds to prevent bird-strike incidents.

But, when it comes to flying through war zones, it appears that this is a matter for the individual airlines. I wonder how many of MA17's passengers would still have boarded that plane if they were made aware that it would be sharing the sky with surface-to-air missiles over a hotly contested, active war zone, and were given the choice of an alternative flight using a safe route. I think that most would have opted for the safe route, but they were not informed of the danger and were not given the opportunity to pursue safer alternatives.PW,

"The response by most of the world to this tragedy has been appropriate"

Who told you that?

The CORRECT response would have been to immediately launch an investigation into why civilian airliners were continuing to fly through a known war zone despite many warnings and directives to the contrary. Instead we have the CONDITIONED or PAVLOVIAN response of immediately looking for a human culprit or scapegoat.

If you stick your hand into the middle of a dog fight, you are likely to get bitten. You can argue all you like about whether the dogs should be fighting or not, or perhaps you could even identify the dog that bit you. None of this changes the fact that sticking your hand into a dogfight is a bloody stupid thing to do. In such cases the CORRECT or APPROPRIATE response is called D2T2 (don't do that thing). You decide to forego the pleasure of intervening physically in dogfights in the expectation that this will reduce the risk of having your hand bitten.

The response of the world so far will not make our skies safer. It will not make it less likely that some airline executive under pressure to meet KPRs will stuff up and send a tin of people flying through a war zone. It is not an appropriate response at all.Dave,

"Using sophisticated radar-guided missiles to track, lock and shoot down planes flying at high altitude is very different to a bystander getting caught in crossfire during a gun battle."

Whether this is true or not is irrelevant to what we are talking about here.

The Iranian airliner was shot down by "sophisticated radar-guided missiles" fired from a US navy vessel. But, unlike the inexperienced seperatist paramilitary fighter who pressed the button in the Ukraine, the sailor who pressed the button in the Persian Gulf was well trained, had fingertip access to the best aerial surveillance and identification systems in the world. At the time, the Iranian airliner was in Iranian airspace and, having just taken off, was at low altitude.

The incident involving the Israeli downing of a passenger jet was simple, undeniable murder with no excuses. One day, Israel will be judged according to the standards applied to all other countries, and it is this that Israeli citizens should concern themselves with. How will they explain the barbarous acts committed in their name by governments that they elected?

There have been a number of other incidents in which civilian flights have been brought down by military fire. Most of these have been while the plane was flying through an active war zone. Mistakes get made in active war zones. Missles get fired and sometimes they hit things that should not be hit.

The biggest lesson we should take from this tragic accident is that flying commercial airliners loaded up with 300 innocent civilians through the middle of a war zone is a bloody stupid thing to do and we should cease doing it forthwith. Pursuing and prosecuting some Ukrainian farm-hick/freedom-fighter may make a few people feel a little better, but it will not make our skies any safer.

There is no place for politics in aviation safety. We should forget the pointless posturing and domestically-oriented hysterics and concentrate on ensuring that no airline corporation in the future is EVER allowed to so cynically and casually risk the lives of innocent civilians by flying them through the middle of an active war zone, simply to save money.Donald,

"The unanimous decision of the United Nations Security Council in adopting Resolution 2166 is a welcome development in the response to the downing of MH17. "

How, exactly?

How will the "inquiry" improve air safety? Will it make it less likely that airline executives risk innocent lives by sending airliners through active war zones? The only likely outcome from this charade is that some poor young ethnic Russian from Eastern Ukraine will cop the blame. We could lock him up for the rest of his life, string him up from a tree, force as much "justice" (in reality retribution) down the throats of grieving families as we like, but it will not make our skies any safer or make it any less likely that airliners will be sent through war zones in the future.

So what is so "welcome" about this carefuilly satge-managed publicity stunt? Wouldn't we all be better off if this tragic accident was investigated for what it is: the consequence of a catastrophic failure of air safety systems?

Please explain.Rabbithole,

"Is it just a coincidence that Malaysia was hit twice by terrorists?"

I think that you will find that Malaysia has been hit more than twice by terrorism, but neither of the recent incidents involving the loss of Malaysian Airlines aircraft can be attributed to "terrorism" on the basis of the information we have available to us. In the first incident, the exact chain of events is as yet unknown and it would be foolish indeed to attempt to identify a cause or attribute responsibility at the moment. With regard to the more recent incident, all that we really know is that a Malaysian Airlines flight was brought down by a surface-to-air missile while flying through the middle of an active war zone.

Over the years there have been a number of incidents in which commercial airliners have been brought down or damaged by live fire while flying through war zones. It doesn't take a rocket scientist to figure out that flying though active war zones when you don't have to is probably not advisable from an air safety point of view. While the likelihood of any one particular aircraft being brought down by live fire is probably quite low, the consequences of such an occurrence are, as we have seen, catastrophic. If you feed such facts into a standard risk management matrix, the answer you will invariably get is that the risk is unacceptable.

So the real question that must be asked is why the decision to put the lives of hundreds of innocent civilians at unnecessary and unacceptable risk of catastrophic misadventure was made in the first place. Would the same decision have been made if the flight path was affected by an ash cloud from an unpronounceable Icelandic volcano, instead of by live missiles?

There are lessons to be learnt from this, but we won't learn them by pursuing those responsible for shooting at what they thought was another Antonov transport. If we are to learn anything, we need to step back from our initial emotional responses and automatic political and diplomatic postures, and examine it simply as a failure in our aviation safety systems with a goal of eliminating the possibility of repeat performances. Simply punishing those responsible will not make our skies any safer, or reduce the possibility of another tin of innocent people being shot out of the sky over another war zone.

Airline corporations need to remember that, in aviation, safety is always paramount, even when this means using a little more fuel and taking a little longer to arrive.Rabbithole,

"Is it possible that the plane was bombed over the Ukraine internally and the cover-up is to claim its been shot down by the Russians?"

Anything is possible, I suppose, and such a scenario would not be entirely without precedent. But I that it is fair to say that it is unlikely in this case. You see, there appears to have been considerable contamination and disturbance of the crash site, which appears to have been carried out by pro-Russian rebels. And, when you think about it, they had previously shot down a number of Ukrainian government aircraft, including at least two at high altitude. It seems to me that, if the pro-Russian rebels were not responsible, they would be doing everything in their power to preserve the crash site and to facilitate the investigation of the real cause and identification of the real culprits. The mere fact that they have not been falling over themselves to ensure that the truth comes out suggests that the official version of events is probably pretty close to the mark.

But we need to get this into perspective. Have a wonder out into the backyard and have a look up at the sky. If you are lucky, you may see an airliner fly over at 35,000 feet. All you will see is a little bright speck and maybe a long vapour trail. Try to work out what sort of plane it is. How many engines does it have? Imagine yourself as a young bloke in charge of an anti-aircraft battery whose job is to shoot down unidentified aircraft. You see one. What do you do?

This was not an act of terrorism. It is exactly what you would expect to happen if you repeatedly fly commercial airliners through live-fire war zones. If this accident had been caused by volcanic ash, all of our attention would be focused on the failure of safety systems that allowed it to happen. But, because there exists the possibility of finding a human scapegoat, we indulge in a feeding frenzy of retribution and lose the opportunity to make our skies a little safer for all.

Makes perfect sense, doesn't it?Rabbithole,

"Is it possible that the plane was bombed over the Ukraine internally and the cover-up is to claim its been shot down by the Russians?"

Well it certainly is a coincidence, but whether it is "just" a coincidence is another question.

I personally think that the ethnic cleansing being carried out in Gaza under the cover of this tragic accident is simply another case of the cynical and opportunistic use by the Ziono-fascist government of Israel, of any chance they can get to conduct a little more ethnic cleansing of Palestine while the world's attention is diverted.

The big difference between the attack on the civilian population of Gaza and the downing of the Malaysian airliner is that the IDF officers who are ordering their personnel to pull their triggers and press their buttons KNOW without any shadow of a doubt that, in doing so, they are taking the lives of innocent civilians.

Rabbithole, I really do think that your heart is in the right place and sometimes when I read your words I am reminded of myself thirty or forty years ago. (I realise that probably sounds a little condescending, but it is not meant to be so, I promise.) But I think that you would get your message across more effectively if you eased back a little on the conspiracy theories and looked more closely at things like underlying issues, context and history.

Keep up the good fight.yank,

"Why to appease Russia? What should be said is that Russia is choosing confrontation"

I think that we could probably waste a lot of time figuring out who is wearing the black hat at the moment, but in reality, this looks more like WW1 - a fight between "bad guys" that will end up destroying a lot of stuff and killing a lot of people for no good purpose. Bishop and Abbott should not be stirring the pot for domestic political purposes. This is a time for cool heads and honesty, not grandstanding.Terry,

"Both the US and the USSR have shot down commercial airliners through mistaken identity."

It is a more common occurrence than most people realise. Even the Ukraine cannot claim the high moral ground. After all, they did shoot down a Russian airliner in Russian airspace during exercises close to the Russian border. The Israelis made a similar error over the Sinai Desert.

Most incidents rate only a passing mention on our nightly news, if that. This is because Australians are rarely among the victims. Most of the incidents have occurred during wars in third-world countries that few Australians could accurately point out on a world map.Lou,

"If that person is on a chronic care plan then no, they won't be paying $364 "

This concession only apples to concession card holders, not to the vast majority of Austraians.

But, even for a mother of three who holds a concession card, the seven dollar co-payment will be a major impost that could potentially cost unto to $280 per year.

NONE of the money raised will be spent on providing healthcare. It is simply a cynical attempt to shift the cost burden of our society onto those who can least afford it.

If Mr Abbott we serious about improving the health system he would abolish private insurance and put doctors on the Commonwealth payroll.ellicat,

"The proposed GP co-payment is capped at 10 visits per year - i.e. $70 max "...for concession card holders ONLY. There is NO CAP for the vast majority.

But, even for concession card holders the "cap" is misleading. The cap applies to individuals. This means that, if you have four kids, you can spend up to $70 on EACH OF THEM ($280 dollars in total) PLUS $70 on yourself and your partner, adding up to a total of $420 per annum.

The co-payment has even been condemned by the ultra-conservative AMA, which is usually the Tories' sole source of support in health policy matters. It is bad policy that will end up costing many more times what is saved, and will result in poorer health outcomes for most Australians.

We cannot afford to keep wasting money in maintaining a private health system as well as fulfilling our primary responsibility as a nation to provide everyone with access to health services. The money currently wasted on advertising health insurance should be spent instead on providing healthcare to Australian citizens, as should the profits drawn from the health budget by the funds and the thrity percent of premiums paid by the taxpayer.

The health funding problems we experience are the direct result of billions being wasted on an entirely superfluous private system. Mr Abbott is doing all that he can to ensure that our health system remains unsustainable and he shouldbe roundly condemned for his idiocy.Artful Dodger,

"The danger is all out conflict with Russia.
Time for wise heads."

Well said. Its good to see that there are a few of us not bowing to the propaganda and making up our own minds based on the evidence. Whether there are enough of us to prevail over the Tory cheer squad is anyone's guess.

We'll just have to wait and see.Terry,

"Following the MH17 tragedy, Tony Abbott acted swiftly and decisively. For the first time"

What a pity that the issue that he picked was so far beyond his abilities. He has gotten this so wrong it is not funny.

Europe is currently on a knife-edge. The issues driving the current conflict are virtually identical to those that drove Europe into the First World War. The international economy is in crisis for exactly the same reason as it was in the years leading up to WW1. And Abbott and Bishop are currently blundering around Europe, beating their chests for a DOMESTIC AUDIENCE, and doing all that they can to stir the pot and produce an incident that will spark a major armed conflict between nuclear-armed nations.

The incident that earned Menzies the epithet "Pig-Iron Bob" occurred before I was born. I have always considered Menzies' decision to sell iron to the Japanese (which later rained down on Darwin as bombs) to be the stupidest act ever made by an Australian Prime Minister. But I fear that Abbott has trumped him with his decision to send AFP and ADF officers into an active war zone.

What happens if one of the AFP or ADF members is injured or killed by crossfire? What will Mr Abbott do then - invade Russia? How far does he think that the US will back him on his populist jihad?

You Tories and warmongers need to realise that MH17 is an AIR SAFETY ISSUE adn the investigation should be focused fairly and squarely on why a commercial airliner was allowed to fly through an active war zone and why it was 14 km off course when it crashed. 

Abbott's boorish behaviour will come back to bite Australia BIG TIME. It is highly likely that many more Australians than the 37 killed on MH17 will die as a result of his ill-considered actions.

Will you still be cheering for him then?Joe Bloggs,

"MH17 was at all times on course on flight route L980, at 33,000 feet, flying at 479 kts."

MH17 was struck 14 km from its designated course. It was NOT "on course" at all although it may have been attempting to return to its corect course.

"The L980 flight route was deemed safe by the ICAO."

Considering the result of this decision, it is pretty clear that this is where the systems failure has occurred.

"This same flight route was being used by hundreds of flights each day."

From a risk management perspective, this is largely irrelevant if isolated from the other salient factors. The probability of any one aircraft being hit by a missile on any one flight was low, but the consequences of any one such incident are, as we can see, so catastrophic as to make ANY possibility of this happening unacceptable. For this reason, the proposal to fly commercial airliners through active war zones would be instantly rejected if subjected to risk management principles. Of course, if you have a thousand-to-one chance of a plane being hit by a missile while flying through a war zone then you need to expect that, once in every thousand flights, an aircraft will be hit by a missile. If, as you say, hundreds of flights are using the airspace every day, then the chances of one being hit by a missle are disturbingly high.

It is easy to look for someone to blame. It is easy to fall back on authority (claiming that it must have been OK because the authorities said so). But just look at the RESULTS of the failure. Can we really continue to sweep this under the carpet while we pursue Mr Abbott's bogey men? How safe will YOU feel the next time you fly over Europe. How will you know that your pilot has not been directed to share the sky with live missiles?

Let's get real about this!Joe,

"This route carries dozens of planes an hour and flight MH17 was within L980."

I agree. This is the point. They SHOULDN'T have been using a route that goes through the middle of a war zone, and the proof of the pudding, as they say, is in the eating. If it were acceptable to fly airliners through war zones MH17 would not have crashed, 300 dead people would still be alive and Tony Abbott would be safe, out of world view, in Canberra rather than doing all he can to throw lit matches into a powderkeg.

" Please note commercial flights regularly fly over war zones, and continue to do so. Unless they are aware (or informed) that the combatants have the type of advanced technology (like a BUK) that could target a civilian airliner."

That is my whole point.

In aviation safety, the rule of thumb is that you don't do anything unless it is PROVEN to be safe. You do not ASSUME that a risk does not exist, you ENSURE that it doesn't. And if you cannot ENSURE that the risk does not exist, you ASSUME that it does.

Consider the following example:

Most airliners take off, negotiate their chosen route, and land at their chosen destination without any need to deploy emergency oxygen masks. An accountant or manager might well assume, therefore, that it is safe and acceptable to operate aircraft without emergency oxygen masks. But an air safety expert would take a different view.

Most of the time, you can fly through a war zone without getting hit by a missile and land in perfect safety. You may only have a one-in-a-thousand chance of misadventure. But this means that, if you do it ten thousand times, you are likely to be caught in the crossfire 10 times, and it only takes one of these incidents to kill 300+ people.

I think that most air travellers would be horrified to realise that their lives are routinely put at risk for the sake of the convenience and financial health of airlines. This is a major scandal. Airlines should be compelled to inform their passengers of their routes before departure and give them the opportunity to change arrangements at no cost if they consider the chosen route to be too risky. Or we could simply ban this stupid and unnecessary practice altogether and totally remove the risk.Joe,

"Like you say "let us get real about this", Russian forces invading Ukraine shot down a civilian airliner using advanced Russian anti aircraft systems. "

You should listen to the news rather than attempting to make it up.

The most likely explanation for the incident is that a seperatist paramilitary fighter shot at what he or she thought was a legitimate military target and hit an airliner instead.

When you have a war, missiles get fired at aircraft. The people firing the missiles are usually facing a "them or us" situation. If they don't fire a missile at the approaching aircraft, it may very well drop a bomb on them. So the incentive to fire the missile on the assumption that the aircraft is hostile is fairly high. This is a simple fact of war. You cannot expect warfare to be civilised or rational and you cannot expect the people dragged into it to act entirely rationally.

But airline executives sit in nice, safe offices. They are not faced with immediate life-or-death situations. They have the time to consider their decision and a vast supply of aviation safety experts to help them through any areas of which they are unsure. The decision to route MH17 through a war zone when alternatives were available was made in a calm atmosphere, free of great pressure.

My contention is that considerations that were irrelevant to air safety were placed above genuine air safety issues in the decision-making process, and that this was the source of the systems failure that ultimately claimed the lives of 300 innocent civilians.

Look Joe, considering the consequences, NOBODY could rationally argue that the decision to fly MH17 through a war zone was the right one. It was clearly the wrong decision for at least three hundred reasons. My great concern is that the breast-beating and grandstanding we are witnessing from our leaders reduces the possibility of real lessons being learned that lead to real improvements in passenger safety, to virtually nothing.

This is NOT a political issue, and politicians should keep their noses out of it. It is an air safety issue. It concerns anyone who flies or plans to fly in the future. Mr Abbott should make himself scarce and let the experts do their jobs.Marigold,

"This is not terrorism aimed at Australia - in the sense that we all know it - and there is nothing to be gained for the victims, their families or our country by continued grandstanding."

Well said.

"Terrorism" has largely lost its meaning over the past decade. It used to actually mean something, and just about everybody agreed that that thing was a bad thing. Now it has simply become a weasel-word for military action by people we don't like.

The separatist fighters in Eastern and Southern Ukraine are not "terrorists". Their actions have clearly been directed at military targets and it appears that the downing of the airliner was most probably the result of a disastrous miscalculation rather than any attempt to gain political advantage by inspiring fear and loathing in civilian populations.

I am not sure who is wrong and right in this dispute between the government of Ukraine and a sizeable chunk of Ukraine's population, and I am perfectly happy to accept that both sides are in the wrong. But one thing is clear - the civil conflict in Ukraine is none of Australia's business and Mr Abbott should confine his statements and activities to supporting an independent investigation into the failures in air traffic management that allowed a civilian airliner to fly into an obviously hazardous situation.

The fact that 37 of the victims of this accident were Australian citizens or residents is not really relevant to the investigation. 298 of our fellow human beings died as a result of a massive failure in the way we decide where planes fly and where they don't. The ONLY important thing is to ensure that such a thing cannot happen again and the only way to achieve this is to reform the system of air route planning and management.

The "wise old heads" of the diplomatic service should tell Mr Abbott to pull his head in. He is not an air safety expert and is clearly out of his depth in international affairs. The only thing he is likely to achieve is damage to Australia's interests.james,

"The blame in fact is with those that fired the missile."

The job of a person manning an anti-aircraft battery is to protect your fellow fighters by shooting down aircraft that do or may pose a threat. The person who fired the missile did their job correctly.

The job of air traffic controllers and airline executives is to ensure that airline passengers can travel safely and are not put at unnecessary risk. The passengers of flight MH17 did not know that the air traffic controllers and airline executives in whom they had entrusted their lives obviously placed convenience and cost above air safety considerations in directing their flight into potentially hazardous skies.

It seems to me that this is where the fialure was. Think of it this way:

Imagine if someone built a 100 metre high brick wall right at the end of the north-south runway at Kingsford Smith. Now, people aren't allowed to build such structures at the end of runways for very good reason: if you do there is a strong likelihood that a plane will collide with it. But, although the wall shouldn't be there, it is.

Now, you are a pilot approaching the runway. You have a perfect right to make a normal approach and, had the builder not done the wrong thing it would be perfectly safe to do so. But if you make a normal approach and smash into the wall, YOU and not the person who built the wall, is unltimately responsible for the collision and its consequences.

Air safety investigations never examine who was to blame for an incident, because this is largely irrelevant. The important thing is to make sure that the failure is not repeated.

We cannot stop anti-aircraft batteries from shooting at aircraft in times of war. After all, this is precisely what they are for. But we CAN and SHOULD stop taking stupid risks with the lives of innocent people by re-routing air traffic routes to avoid skies over war zones in the same way that they are regularly re-routed to avoid other hazards like volcanic ash and major storm systems.

If we can fly around volcanoes, we can fly around war zones. Convenience and economy provide poor excuses for risking human life.James,

"Actually, you're wrong. A soldier must first be under direct threat"

Pure piffle.

The personnel in anti-aircraft batteries are seldom under "direct threat". Their job is to intercept and destroy aircraft BEFORE they pose a "direct threat" to the interests the battery is supposed to protect by dropping bombs on them, collecting intelligence for or delivering supplies to your enemies. If war-fighting were confined to defending yourself against direct threats to your person, it is difficult to see how a war could ever be fought at all. While this may be a desirable state of affairs, it is not the state of affairs that exists in the world at the moment. One of the more persistent and unfortunate features of modern warfare is the immense "collateral damage" done to civilian populations. This, in itself, is a very compelling reason to avoid war at almost any cost.

I am sure that the people who decided to send civilian airliners through a war zone would have preferred that the war was not happening and, had it been within their power, would have done something to stop it. But air traffic controllers and airline executives do not have such powers. They do, however, have the power to change flight routes to ensure that aircraft do not enter hazardous areas. It appears that they frequently decline to exercise this power and it also appears that the "worst-case" consequences of this systemic failure resulted in the deaths of 300 people and now threatens the peace and stability of an entire continent.

The anti-aircraft battery did exactly what it was designed to do. The air traffic control system failed to do what it was designed to do. We need to fix the air traffic system so that it cannot fail in this way again. It will probably fail in other ways at another time and, when it does, we should find out why and fix that problem too. That's how you make flying safer for everyone.JohnnoH,

"However let's see in six months time when MH17 is forgotten"

Let's all sincerely hope that, in six months time, MH17 IS forgotten and not remembered as the trigger for yet another bloody European "World War".

We are very isolated over here, but people in Europe are getting more and more scared by the day and the antics of an antipodean Don Qixote blundering around Europe, insulting foreign leaders and doing all that he can to provoke Putin into a stupid act of defiance must be scaring the pants off them. THEY don't want another war in Europe. They can see the scars on the landscape. They remember the loss of loved ones.

Abbott needs to realise that he has blundered into something that has the potential to become a truly historic "turning point" similar to the assassination of a looney Arch-Duke by an equally looney Slav nationalist in 1914. Tensions are at a higher pitch in Europe than at any time since the end of WW2 and it is likely that this will result in war at some time in the next decade or two. 

Mr Abbott needs to ask himself if he realy want's to be remembered by history in the same way as the looney who shot the looney in Sarajevo, and whether short term political gain on the domestic front is really worth risking another European war over.

Where are the wise old heads in DFAT? Why are they not advising Abbott to pull his head in and SHUT UP? Have they been consulted, or has Abbott relied on his own advisors?

We deserve answers to these questions.Objective,

"The bloggers around the world are busy discovering the lies Ukrainian government is fabricating 24/7, and Abbot is parroting these lies like there's no tomorrow. "

There are likely to be all sorts of conspiracy theories flying around at the moment. Personally, I think that the scenario of MH17 being shot down by a seperatist anti-aircraft barrage is probably the most likely explanation of what happened. After all, if you keep flying commercial airliners through the same airspace in which a war is being fought, sooner or later an airliner's course through the sky will intersect that of live fire and hundreds of people will be killed. It is a simple matter of probability.

So, who is to blame? Can we really blame an anti-aircraft battery in a war zone for shooting down aircraft? Isn't that what anti-aircraft batteries are supposed to do? It seems to me that, from this point of view, the system worked.

But how did a commercial airliner come to be flying through a war zone? Is is acceptable that routing commercial airliners through hostile airspace appears to be a routine procedure among international airlines? Would it be aceptable to route airliners through volcanic ash clouds and hurricanes as well?

It appears that this is where the failure occurred - in our international air safety systems. And this is where our efforts should now be focused. What happened in the skies over Ukraine should never have been allowed to happen - especially after KAL007 and the Vincense incident. The failure was probably not confined to a single decision by a single purpose - and is more likely to be found in the overall system and culture prevailing in the international air transport industry and regulatory framework.

Just who shot down the plane is a side-issue. If you fly planes through war zones, some will be shot down and it doesn't really matter who fired the missile. The important thing is to ensure that no more innocent civilians are lost to systemic failures that direct civilian aircraft through hostile airspace.

Mr Abbott would be doing Australia and the world a much greater service by leaving the investigation up to air safety experts and under no circustances should he contemplate placing AFP and ADF personnel in a position where they could become embroiled in live fire incidents between Ukrainian and Russian forces.JoeBolggs,

"So despite your suggestions there really is no valid excuse for shooting down a civilian aircraft on a heavily used flight route using a modern and advanced anti aircraft missile system."

The only justifiaction needed for an anti-aircraft battery to shoot down a plane is that the operator perceives it as a threat. The person who pressed the trigger did their job correctly.

The job or air traffic controllers is to ensure that airliners arrive at their destination safely and do not stray into dangerous situations like volcanic ash clouds, war zones and the paths of other aircraft. It is a relatively easy thing to do. You just make sure that nobody flies on routes that expose them to these hazards.

The air defence system used by the seperatist fighters appears to have done its job. The air traffic controllers and airline executives charged with keeping air travellers safe from foreseeable dangers did not successfully discharge their responsibilities. As a result, an airline with 300 people on board collidede with a missile and those 300 people are now dead.

This is not about blame. Air safety doesn't give a stuff about blame. The only important thing is to correctly identify the deficiency in the system that allowed the accident to occur and ensure that it is eliminated. Anything else is just a cynical political exercise exploiting the innocent victims of this appalling tragedy.joe,

"Stela-10 missiles have a maximum intercept altitude of only 10,000 feet. As such they deemed 33,000 to be a safe altitude for commercial air traffic."

Thsi was clearly a disastrous miscalculation. Especially when you remember that at least two Ukrainian aircraft had been shot down at altitudes close to that of MH17 in the preceding week. So it should have been obvious that the rebels had the capacity to shoot down targets flying well above 10,000 feet.

They took a gamble and it didn't pay off.

Gambling with money is OK. Gambling with human life is NEVER acceptable.fredn,

That's right. Clever terrorists don't use the World Wide Web for communication. And they probably use mobile phones more as remote bomb triggers than for communication.

Osama bin Laden was not tracked down by his mobile phone or web browsing habits, the US intelligence services mounted an extraordinary clandestine operation in which it corrupted a vital WHO polio vaccination programme, and tracked him down using DNA analysis of samples taken from unwitting recipients of the vaccinations. They got their man (or so they claim), but at a huge cost to the world. The simple fact is that polio is a bigger killer than terrorism, but there is more political advantage in murdering a "baddie" than eradicating a disease that kills and disables more people than Bin Laden ever could.

The proposed changes MAY catch some dumb terrorists - the sort that are more likely to blow themselves up in a garage than do any real harm - and will almost certainly result in many innocent, law abiding Australians having their privacy unnecessarily and unjustly invaded for no good reason.

Surely even Mr Abbott can come up with something better than this.fool,

"We already know that different business collects our data , sells it and tailors internet adds accordingly. The server you use keeps a history for a long time. Private enterprise is already watching."

There is a big difference. Businesses collect data from your interactions with web applications hosted on their site. When you access a site that has interactive content, it is not uncommon to have to agree to a "terms of use" schedule, and this often includes the type of data about you that the site will hold and what that data will be used for. I suggest that you should eb very suspicious of sites with interactive content that do not follow such protocols.

And, even where such protocols are followed, you should really take the time to read the terms (I know, it's a pain in the butt, but it is worth the time) and decide for yourself whether it is worth proceeding to the site under the conditions specified.

But what we are talking about here is slightly different. We are talking about a plan to force service providers to hold onto data that, in the right hands, can reveal an extraordinary amount of detail about your personal life, preferences, habits, interests, AND those of your children and other loved ones. And this data is not limited to your interaction with a single site or application, but covers every single thing that your browser does on the web. This mass of data will be stored on ISP servers, each with a different operator and each with a different level of security and reliability. This data will be available to anyone with the skill to circumvent the security of any of these servers. So it will not just be OUR security services who will have access to the data. Foreign intelligence services, cyber-criminals and terrorist organsiations all have access to advanced hacking skills and it would be stupid in the extreme to expect them not to use them.

Oh, by the way, there are very serious penalties for breaches of privacy by marketeers and others. If you feel that your privacy has been breached, you should really take action.MrSmith,

"Do you think the ABC is the only website your browser contacted while downloading this news article?"

Good point. You obviously understand how these things work.

When I started building web pages in 1993 they were just that - pages: flat text files stored in the file system of a web server sitting under the coffee machine in the mealroom. (Network administrators generally had a pretty dim view of web servers back then - most saw them as toys) All of the information that you got in your browser was contained in that file on that server under that coffee machine in that mealroom.

Things have gotten a little bit more complicated since then. Much of the content you view on the web is not stored in a file system, but is generated "on the fly" by scripts and algorithms, using data accessed via the web from a wide variety of "web services". These "web services" can be hosted anywhere in the world and frequently share servers with other applications that may or may not be benign.

As an end user, you have no control over where the application you are accessing is getting its information. It may be getting it's xml schema info from Microsoft and it's timer service from a server in Iraq that is now controlled by ISIL - we have no way of knowing. A weather page you visit may get some of its climatic information from a weather service in Somalia or Chechznia (is that how you spell it? - to tell the truth, I would be surprised).

This means two things: First, the information gathered is likely to be entirely useless in terms of providing useful intelligence that could prevent terrorist attacks, and second: there is a very real possibility that you could unwittingly become a "terrorist suspect" simply because an application you viewed made use of a legitimate web service hosted on a dodgy site.MT

"On the plus side it will provide more jobs for some sys admins and people at ASIO"

If only.

Just about all government IT is contracted out, in many cases to rather dodgy concerns who, to tell the honest truth, I would not trust with my lunch money. These are the people who will be trawling through your personal information - not duly authorised officers of the Crown.

You are right about the cost of providing extra storage capacity, however. You see, you don't just need extra disk space for all that extra data (and metadata is very-very "fat"), you have to back it up. Backing up takes time and, while it is happening, has a major performance hit on your servers and network (backup software is notoriously hungry for system resources) and, if you are to maintain a decent level of services to your customers, this means upgrading processing power and memory capacity in your servers at least, and may even require an investment in extra servers, load-balancing, mirroring and such.

Not only will this increase the cost of browsing the web, it will place considerable barriers to entry in the way of new players inthe ISP market, and further entrench monopolies. The legislation is likely to make establishment costs for new ISP's so exhorbitant that existing ISP's can be confident that there will be no effective competition in the foreseeable future.

WWW used to stand for World Wide Web. In Australia, under this government, it has come to mean "What Wupert Wants". Barriers to entry for new ISP's means less competition for Rupert's businesses. And wrecking the NBN removes all possibility of competition for FoxTel. He is certainly getting a good return on his investment in Tony Abbott.Tory Boy,

"Growing up in England and seeing the reality of terrorism first hand"

Growing up in Australia in the 1960's, and having a best mate whose father had once signed a petition against the Vietnam War (enough to have you labelled a "suspected communist" back then). I remember turning up to visit, and walking past the blotter-green Morris walkthrough van with the two blokes-in-hats sitting outside my mate's house. His dad used to send us out to pester them for ice creams.

We thought that it was a terrific lark, jumping all over a car containing two adults who were so intent on pretending that they weren't there that they were powerless to respond. But it sort of lost its humour as my mate's dad's health started to decline. He was a fit and healthy man in his mid-forties, but he was dead by the time he was fifty.

My mate's dad was not a communist - he was a violinist, and quite a brilliant one at that. He was passionate about peace and, in those days, that was enough to have you classified as a "communist suspect" and your life destroyed.

I'd prefer to think that such shameful behaviour by our government is simply a bad memory - something that we have consigned to the past.

You need to get your fear under control rather than allowing it to control you. Panic rarely promotes rational decisions and you can give away far more than you realise by giving in to it.

Democracy and respect for human rights has always required courage. Our rights will always be under threat from those who try to reverse history. In suggesting that we meekly surrender them without so much as a whimper, you are letting "Team Australia" down badly.

Get yourself some backbone lad!Craig,

"The police could come and frame me anytime they want and lock me up."

At the moment, this is highly unlikely. We have an entire infrastructure of checks and balances in our legal system to ensure that such injustices don't happen. They still do occasionally, as Craig Thompson can attest, but they are rare and you can avoid any possibility of anything bad happening by not winning a seat that the Liberal Party wants.

But we are not talking about the situation as it stands now, because if the new laws come into effect, the checks and balances that make your statement almost factual will dissappear.

Anybody who thinks that collecting and storing metadata from your internet activity is some sort of benign activity that could not reveal anything important about, you should think again. The analysis of this type of metadata is a multi-billion dollar industry. Advertisers and marketers use advanced analysis techniques to glean extraordinary amounts of information about you, your likes, dislikes, interests, habits, fears and so on, by linking metadata together from different sources. And, of course, you would not expect intelligence services to be all that far behind the advertisers when it comes to analysing metadata.

To most of us, the metadata collected from someone's digital perigrinations would just look like a long list of incomprehensible and largely meaningless web addresses, POST and GET requests and such. To a skilled analyst, it is a window into your soul. And the algorithms they use are truly mind-blowing in their capabilities.

But don't worry yourself to much. Just take another dose of soma and everythihg will be fine.Alfie,
"If you are not a suspected terrorist"

How do you know that you are not a "suspected terrorist"?

Under the proposed changes WE ARE ALL CONSIDERED TO BE "SUSPECTED TERRORISTS" and THAT is what people object to.

"I find it odd that people would want to condone or protect these individuals."

As one of the twenty-odd million "suspected terrorits" in Australia, I am condoning and protecting my own rights to freedom of thought, freedom of speech, freedom of association and freedom of communication.

I expect my government to treat me as a CITIZEN not a SUSPECT. ANY government that routinely views citizens as suspects has no authority, no legitimacy and no mandate to govern.sleepyarky,

"I can remember the good old days of Bob Askin; when more than half of the Vice Squad's income was bribes from gangsters."

Me too. In those days, if a community activist got in the way of a development you wanted, they could be "dissappeared" with relative ease and no questions asked. And this sort of thing was not confined to NSW or the Askin government. The Bjelke-Petersen regime in Queensland, the Bolte regime in Victoria and the Court dynasty in WA were all just as corrupt, as were their police forces.

The simple fact is that if you give police or intelligence services extraordinary powers, they will use them, and they will abuse them. The more power these agencies have, the greater the possility of corrupt behaviour and the higher the rewards. And then, of course, those who attempt to reform the system and bring the cowboys under control will find themselves labelled as "terrorist suspects".Josh,

"Are you allowed to know why you are suspected?"

Are you even allowed to know THAT you are suspected? Under Howard's drachonian laws, you can be detained without anyone's knowledge and it is an offence to tell anyone if you do know that someone has been detained. When combined with the ability to trawl through our personal data, this raises some truly horrifying possiblities.

We already know that this government loves secrecy and will classify just about anything as "operational" in order to avoid scrutinty. In other words, we already know that we cannot trust them to respect our rights and liberties.smoranean,

"Why would anyone be stupid enough to use a web browser that allows its history to be 'leaked' "

While I am not a total expert on security and operating systems, I am fairly confident that I could strip your browsing history out of your machine in about three minutes, and there is nothing that you could do to stop me. There's not a lot to it - all you need is administrative access, and that's a pretty easy thing to get if you know what you are doing. Then it's just a matter of knowing where the history file is and you can find that with a simple search (even if it has been  moved from its default location).

But ASIO is not interested in the browsing history held on your computer. What they are after is the metadata used by web servers to direct your requests and serve up content to you. This metadata is stored in files in the routers and servers used by ISPs, and is commonly used by web applications to "personalise" your experience of the application. This contains heaps more information than the browsing history on your PC (which really only holds the addresses you type in to the address bar).

You can check out some of the data you send each time you make a request by using the Developer Tools (in IE) or whatever the equivalent is in the other browsers. I would expect that they all have a network traffic capture facitlity (in IE it is under the 'Network' tab) and all you have to do is click the "Start Capture" button (or equivalent) and then browse to your favourite site. The you can check out the extraordinary amount of information generated by that single mouse click.

THAT's the information that they are after and from it they can build a very complete picture of your preferences, habits, political persuasion, health, sexual preferences, religious beliefs, marital status, parental status and so on.

What they are unlikely to find, however, is any information that will make us any safer from terrorist attack. Such communications do not use public carriers like the Internet. To track down Osama Bin Laden the US had to corrupt a vital anti-polio program in Pakistan (which has led to an outbreak of polio - a disease that we thought we had conquered) because Bin Laden was not stupid enough to use the Internet.Snarkus,

"Given that almost any town has at least an Indian, Thai and Chinese cafe I doubt that Australians are as racist as this this author insists."

Given that slave owners in Carolina and Alabama had lots of African slaves, your "logic" suggests that they should not have been considered to be racists.

Almost every town may have an Indian, Thai or Chinese restaurant, but how many have an Indian, Thai or Chinese mayor or MP? How many Australian boards of management have Chinese, Thai or Indian chairpeople?

I think that what you are saying is that migrants are welcome provided that they know their place - serving us in restaurants, doing our laundry, conforming to our "water melon and fried chicken" stereotypes. While they may be relatively benign stereotypes, it is only a short jump from this type of "folk wisdom" to "all Jews covet money", "Peruvians can hold their breath for twelve days and shoot laser beams from their eyes", "you cannot trust an Italian", "Catholics want to overpopulate the world" or "Arabs have no respect for the truth". Soon it seems perfectly reasonable that the government should round up Gypsies to protect them from their own kleptomaniacal instincts.

I used to work in an Indian restaurant. It served excellent North Indian and Kashmiri cuisine and was owned by an "Indian" - or to be more precise, a Canadian native American. Before I got the job I used to think that Columbus was a goose for mistaking native Americans for Indians, but now I think that he probably tasted their cooking.PP,

"Really? As a white Anglo-Saxon male I have never encountered any form of racism."

As a white, Celtic/Spanish/German/Gypsy male I can't say that I have ever experienced any racial discrimination either.

When a member of a powerful majority complains of discrimination, the motivation is almost invariably comes down to a thing called "victim envy". In its most extreme form, this fetish can have truly bizarre consequences. Shortly after the end of the American Civil War and the abolition of slavery, the people of the US amended their Constitution with a provision designed to protect freed slaves from retribution from governments in anti-abolitionist states. In what must rank as one of the worst judicial errors of all time, a group of sleazy corporate lawyers petitioned the Supreme Court to extend the protection against the denial of individual rights by a government, to corporations by recognising them as a "legal person", and the Supreme Court swallowed it.

We need to be careful.Edward,

"I suppose it comes down to how you define "race"."

Why even try? The idea that humanity is divided into races never really had any scientific validity in the first place, and any doubt was removed with the advent of genetic archaeology, which has shown rather conclusively that we are all rather more closely related than we thought, and that the vast majority of us are descended from a small group of around 1500 people who managed to survive a cataclysmic volcanic eruption in south-east Asia around 70,000 years ago.

There was a time when we believed that we could classify human beings by the lumps on their heads. The idea of race has about the same level of validity.whogoesthere,

" so is it 'stealing', as what has been 'taken' ?. "

Interesting question, isn't it.

Perhaps the best way of tackling the problem is to look at why we consider stealing to be an immoral act. In most cases, the things that we consider to be immoral are thought to be so because of the negative consequences that they create for either individual human beings, or a particular society as a whole. Stealing someone's horse deprives that person of the use and enjoyment of the horse. This has negative consequences for the owner of the horse, but also the society in which he or she lives, so we consider stealing to be wrong and make laws against it.

But let's say that I am a genetic engineer walking home from work (I'm not a genetic engineer by the way) and I stop to pat someone's horse over the fence. It sneezes on my camel-hair coat (I'm sure that all genetic engineers wear camel hair coats) and I go home, use my Acme "Little Pandora" Home Cloning kit to collect the horse's DNA from the gooley on my coat, inject it into a frog's egg, and create a perfect biological copy of someone else's horse. Have I stolen the horse? Had I performed this miracle in the Wild West would they have string me up as a horse thief? Of course not - they would have burned me as a witch.

Downloading a file creates a copy, or "clone" of the original file. It does not deprive the "owner" of the file of the use or enjoyment of the file. So it cannot rightly be considered as "theft" without dangerously trivialising our perfectly rational ethical and legal prohibition of stealing.

This does not necessarily mean that downloading files without the authorisation of the copyright owner is not wrong, just that it is clearly not stealing.z:

"Fact is, these dinosaur media conglomerates don't like change."

Problem is that history is sort of like porridge - all lumpy and viscous. Conditions change and society evolves, but not all bits of society evolve at the same rate. Often technology races off ahead and our institutions, ethical systems, traditions, economic relations and have to scramble to keep up. And history does not operate in a frictionless environment. The interaction of historical and economic forces often throws up relationships that provide individuals or groups within a society with an "edge" that allows them to exercise coercive power over other human beings. It is perfectly natural that, when this occurs, the temporary beneficiaries will devote considerable energy to maintaining a false stasis and making their advantage permanent. And it is also quite understandable that some of the devices (eg: corporations) that we have made to mimic certain human behaviours, will, in certain circumstances, take on other human behaviours as well. So there is nothing inherently sinister or nasty in the fact that large media corporations who have staked their financial fortunes on maintaining the illusion that ideas can be owned, would strive to maintain the illusion. But the only question we need to ask ourselves as human beings, is whether or not it is our best interests to continue to indulge this behaviour in corporations, or whether we would be better off removing this historical logjam and doing all that we can to encourage and facilitate the free flow and exchange of ideas.

One thing is clear: creative workers deserve to be rewarded for the work that they do. "Intellectual property" has always been a fudge and, now that it has been exposed by digital technology, we need a new conceptual framework on which to base a new way of achieving the objective: to properly and fairly reward creative workers for the invaluable service they provide in enriching all of our lives. And that is what we should be turning our attention to, not struggling vainly to preserve what was a flawed concept in the first place,Paul,

String, strung....well spotted. I suppose that I could blame it on the goose who put the 'u' beside the 'i' on the qwerty keyboard, but it was probably more the result of having just woken up after having a surgeon playing around with my innards. It appears that the sleeping potion they gave me was not good for my parsing.

But enough of my lame excuses. What really gets up my nose is weasel words and, in the context of file-sharing and downloading, the use of the word "theft" or "stealing" is a weasel word.

I think that at least a part of the problem is connected to the "fuzziness" of our understanding of a number of concepts that we assume that we fully understand. One of these is "property". When we say we "own" something, what is it that we are claiming to own? Sometimes this appears to be quite straightforward. If we own a car, we can point to the car and say "there is my car - I own it." But what, exactly do you own? OK, you own a chunk of metal and plastic that can carry you from one place to another. But do you own the shape of the car, the colour of the paint, the pattern of the tread on your tyres, the formula used to mix the rubber for the tyres, the firmware installed on the engine management system? Can such things as shapes, colours, formulas, routines, methods, ideas or genes ever be said to be "owned"?

This didn't really matter that much back when ideas were bound to media like the books in medieval "tied" libraries were chained to the shelves. But digital technology has changed all that. Digital technology has effectively liberated the message from the medium and, in so doing, forced us to confront a very large question: Is it in the best interests of human society and individuals for us to allow information, ideas and genes to be viewed as "property"?

What do you think?10th,

Your analogy is quite a good one. But soon we won't even have to bother with a trip to the local hardware. Recent developments in 3D scanning and printing have opened up a whole new Pandora's box that will soon make the whole idea of intellectual property seem entirely ridiculous. In the not-too-distant future it will be possible for any person with a 3D printer (and they will soon be entering the consumer market in a big way) to create a perfect copy of just about anything, anywhere they wish. This will do to patents what file-sharing has already done to copyright.

We urgently need a new way of rewarding creative workers for their efforts. We can no longer rely on a mechanism that relies on an inextricable link between message and medium. I have no idea of what this new way will be, but the fact that we need one is blindingly obvious.burke,

"The death of the NBN has been seriously overstated."

And how, exactly does one "overstate" death?

Death is one of those all-or-nothing things - except if you happen to be a cat under the care of a man called Schr?dinger, and I wouldn't wish that on anyone (or cat).

The NBN is dead. NBN stands for "National Broadband Network". This is what the previous government was building. The sloppy patch being applied to our creaking and decrepit national telecommunications system by the current government will not provide a minor upgrade that will not, in any way, be national in coverage. The technologies being used will not deliver genuine server-to-client broadband capacity (you need fibre from end to end for that), and the increasingly decrepit nature of the network upon which it is being built will ensure rolling breakdowns and disconnections that will make the term "network" somewhat oxymoronic.

Now, this is a great pity for people like me, who live in areas where any rain more intense than a passing sun-shower disconnects our internet and voice communications, but the people I really feel most sorry for are all the business owners who were looking forward, for the first time in Australia's history, to being able to market their wares on overseas markets without the almost insurmountable obstacle of the "tyranny of distance". And, of course, all those regional Australians suffering from illnesses like cancer, who were looking forward to an end to their debilitating and expensive journeys to major population centres for specialist consultations and procedures that, with the NBN, could have been conducted locally.

The NBN is dead. Its replacement - Turnbull's Fraudband Notwork - is an obscene golem - a mockery of the real thing.bob,

"The NBN as designed and rolled out initially, was not very ubiquitous (take out the first N)."

The key word here is "initially". Every project has to start somewhere. Something as large an complex as the wholesale replacement of an entire national telecommunications system does not happen overnight. The roll-out of the NBN was being done in a very strategic manner, with each step providing the platform and capability that would enable the construction of the next step, and it is simply not reasonable to expect such a strategic approach to line up exactly with the priorities that would feature in a patch-up or repair job.

"Many areas with substantial population were not to be offered fibre, but wireless, or satellite. Eventually. If FTTN isn't adequate, how do you/they justify wireless?"

This is simply not true, unless you are still talking about the INITIAL stages of the roll-out. The fact is that ALL exchanges with 1000 connections or more were slated for fibre-to-the-home, and there are very few exchanges with fewer than 1000 connections. I live in a village of fewer than 300 people, but the local exchange has over 4000 connections and was on the list for full fibre conversion.

And wireless networking technology does not have to be "justified". It is an excellent solution in applications for which it was designed. Wireless networking is great for quickly and easily establishing temporary networks for ad-hoc collaboration, and in situations where running cable is either impractical or impossible. And this is exactly the role it would have played in the NBN.

From a network engineering point of view, the NBN roll-out was entirely logical and there is no reason to expect that it would not have delivered exactly what it promised: a total replacement of our existing telecommunications infrastructure with a brand new, broadband network that reached over 90 percent of Australians directly and offered the best possible connection solution for the rest.bob,

" A kind of node with a UTP feed to each tenant."

Cat 6 UTP cable is an excellent solution that offers genuine broadband performance over SHORT distances and is therefore ideal for deployment in local area networks confined to a single building. But the physical limitations of copper conductors makes Cat 6 UTP a less satisfactory solution for wide area or campus networks, and this makes it unsuitable for connecting individual premises to neighbourhood "nodes" as envisaged in Turnbull's Fraudband Notwork.

Besides, the TFN is not even offering Cat6 to the premises. It plans to run the node-to-premises connection on existing two-pair telecoms cable, some of which has been in the ground for a century or more. There is no way in which such a system can deliver genuine broadband services to the premises - the laws of physics simply don't allow it.

But nice try. At least you made a genuine attempt at a sensible argument, which is more than can be said for most of the NBN's critics. Well done and thanks.loo,

"You're missing one extremely important component.

People don't need it in their homes."

I am afraid that this is not an "important component" - simply a bland assertion of your opinion as if it were a fact. Nice try though.

People didn't need a connection to the electricity grid when it was rolled out. What would they have used it for? After all, the electricity grid was for street lighting, wasn't it? But then electric lighting in the home became a status symbol and, with all that electricity running around the homes of rich people, it wasn't long before people started to invent electric refrigerators, vacuum cleaners, washing machines and, in so ding, created a whole new market and an industry to feed it.

To your average Victorian-era household, an electric washing machine would have been about as useful as a screen door on a submarine. But there would be very few Australian households these days, who would consider an electric washing machine to be superfluous to requirement, or even a frivolous extravagance.

Saying that Australian households do not need a reliable connection to a reliable telecommunications network is just plain dumb. We already know that we need this, and have come to take it for granted for close to a century. The ONLY practical way to ensure this into the future is to replace the existing copper telephone network from end to end and the ONLY sensible way to do this is to replace copper with fibre. The fact that this necessary replacement job will replace what we have with a much better network that will provide the platform on which the next generation of connected applications can be built is a huge bonus, and we can look at it as our reward for taking the time and doing the job properly.

The main justification for the NBN has always been the decrepit state of the existing copper network and the urgent need for its wholesale replacement. After all, this is exactly the reason given by Mr Howard for selling off Telstra. You can hardly blame the NBN for the fact that it will also enable a whole new generation of service delivery to Australian households and provide Australian business with unprecedented levels of access to global markets. Whether we need these things or not, we would be stupid to look a gift horse in the mouth.Jeremy,

"Even with ADSL2+ you can stream high definition movies. "

Maybe so, but that was never what the NBN was for.

Most of us have been introduced to the Internet since the development of the "World Wide Web" in the early 1990's. So it is understandable that when we think of the things that you can do on the Internet, we are actually think about what we can do on the World Wide Web. And, of course, one of the enormous number of things you can do on the Web is to stream high definition movies.

Now, what we can do on the World Wide Web is pretty impressive. Walking on a tightrope is pretty impressive too. But, just as the tricks you can perform on a tightrope are limited by the physical properties of the tightrope, the things we can do on the Internet are limited by the physical properties of the "medium" that carries the signal.

So far, most of the improvements delivered by quasi-broadband solutions running on wireless and copper media have involved simply delivering what we could already get through dial-up, only faster.

Now, compare a tightrope to a gymnasium floor. Think of how a gymnasium floor doesn't just make the tricks you can do on a tightrope easier, it significantly expands not just the number of tricks that you can do, but also the range of type of trick that you can do. That's pretty much the sort of thing we are talking about when comparing what we have at the moment (the tightrope) with what we will be able to do on a genuine broadband network. Sure, everything you can do on the Web will be easier, faster and richer, but it is in all the other stuff, much of which we haven't even thought of, that will bring the real advantages. The Web is just one application - an impressive one, but just one. It is the applications that will grow from the new territory opened up by broadband networks, that will revolutionise our lives.Forrest,

" Inefficient markets are invariably replaced by more efficient markets without legislative intervention."

Actually, the precise opposite is true.

The idea of a perfectly free market is about as valid as the idea of perfectly empty space. But, just as the concept of perfectly empty space can be a useful "wireframe" upon which to build cosmological speculations, we can use the idea of a perfectly free market as the starting point in any simulation of how such a state will develop under the forces exerted by a working economy.

A perfectly free market maximises economic efficiency (measured as the percentage of Gross National Income returned to the human constituents of the economy via wages, salaries and government expenditure) by ensuring that economic rent (the running cost of the economy, including profits, rent and interest) is kept to a minimum.

But as I said, a perfectly free market is an impossibility. Any advantage enjoyed by a single vendor will create the conditions that allow the vendor to amplify that advantage, incorporate or eliminate competitors and, with each new iteration, seize more market power. The more control a vendor has over the market, the easier it is for them to increase their control even further, place increasingly insurmountable barriers in the way of new entrants and further entrench their monopoly. What this means is that the development of monopolies in markets (regardless of how "free" they start out) is not an aberration, it is an inevitability.

As monopoly power increases, the monopolists use their growing power to extort higher and higher levels of economic rent from the economy, reducing the return available to the economies human constituents (us) and, by definition, making the economy less, rather than more, efficient.

The responsibility falls, therefore, on the governments we elect to intervene into and regulate the market and the economy to combat the formation and growth of monopolies, ensure vigorous competition and keep the economy as efficient as possible.Mark,

"it becomes increasingly difficult to understand how these proposals could originate with a party whose name invokes political values centring on individual self-determination and the sanctity of free markets."

The rather disturbing fact is that they couldn't have, and they didn't need to. The policies of the parliamentary Liberal Party do not have their origins inside the Liberal Party. The parliamentary Liberal party is too polite to bother its rank-and-file members with requests for guidance on policy. As a matter of fact its leader, Mr Abbott is too polite even to ask his parliamentary colleagues. Mr Abbott has taken the "Lite and Easy" approach - he gets his policies delivered, ready-made from Head Office (NewsCorp) in New York. Besides, "individual values and the sanctity of free markets" is a core principle of liberal-democratic thought, not Tory ideology. The Liberal Party is liberal in name only. The extreme right-wing policies they espouse are entirely incompatible with the mildly left-wing core principles of liberal-democracy. Remember that it was the founder of the Liberal Party who presided over a government that maintained a ban on such literary classics as "Lady Chatterley's Lover" and "Ulysses", refused to allow Australians to brew their own beer, made it illegal to own a television without a license and sat idly by while our markets were swallowed up by foreign monopolies.

The sad fact is that the NBN threatens Mr Murdoch's Foxtel monopoly over internet distribution of entertainment content, so the government says that we are not allowed to have a decent broadband network; Mr Murdoch's "educational services" companies, who already enjoy monopoly power over the increasingly privatised "public" school system in the US and are looking for new markets further afield, so the government says that it must do everything it can to encourage "greater local autonomy" (the slogan used by the Murdoch-funded "charter school" lobby in the US) in our public schools and; the free and open sharing of intellectual and artistic content via the internet is simply a demonstration of the total obsolescence of copyright as a mechanism for rewarding artists and other creators for their work. This is a direct threat to the business models of any corporation (like Mr Murdoch's media corporations) who rely on copyright to extract wealth from the creative efforts of human beings.

Remember when Australian governments worked for Australians? Those were the days.woody,

" we were all forced into the age of digital HD television, only for the Free To Air Networks to abandon HD."

The insistence of the Howard government that broadcasters offer HD capacity was never about giving viewers HD programs of free-to-air television. The simple fact is that, for Foxtel to strengthen its monopoly by offering HD content and further differentiating itself from the offerings of FTA stations, a lot of HD television sets had to be sold. And people were unlikely to invest in an HD television simply to watch Foxtel, so it was necessary to force FTA stations to initially offer HD content in order to give consumers sufficient incentive to replace their television sets. Once this end had been achieved (creating a HUGE waste disposal problem for every local council in Australia), the subterfuge was dropped.

Governments are supposed to do their best to protect us from scams and fraudsters, not to join the with scammers in pulling the wool over the eyes of the people who elected them. It seems that Tory governments are nothing more than sidekicks to the Murdoch empire.Jordan,

"We have borders, we determine who enters, its not perfect, but we get to decide."

Who told you that?

By WE, I am assuming you mean the Australian people. And WE don't get any sort of say in who comes here. Our government decides which human beings are allowed to come and who aren't, and they do so without reference to our wishes. And, when it comes to corporations, it is total open slather. If you want to set up in Australia, no worries, just ome on in! Nio probity checks, no background checks, no requirement to commit to "Australian values", no requirement to swear allegiance and, if you don't like our laws, we'll change them for you.

It is highly offensive that corporations have more rights in Australia than human beings. If corporations can come and go as they please, the same priviledge (at least) should be available to human beings.jordan,

"I am not offended by coalition policy, I agree with it 100%."

Anyone who agrees "100%" with the policies of any party is a fool, and a great big one at that.

jordan, do you have any idea what a human being is? Do you have any idea what human society is? Do you have any idea what a corporation is?

From your assinine reply, I assume that theanswer to all three questions is "No". So I will explain it to you.

Human beings are members of OUR species. You, however much you try to avoid it, are a human being. Human beings have built a thing called human society, which is the biggest, most complex and amazing system in the known universe. Human society has created a number of abstract entities like "states" and "corporations" in order to make life easier, more secure and, above all, more enjoyable for human beings. In other words, states and corporations are TOOLS used by human beings.

And now you are telling me that you are delighted with the idea that corporations should have superior rights to human beings. You will probably be pleased to learn that your statements would have fitted in perfectly with the ideas of Benito Mussolini and other fascist theorists of the 1920's.

You need to get it into your head that corporations are nothing more than squiggles on a piece of paper. They do not have rights and, as they exist entirely at the pleasure of humanity, can and should be terminated whenever they inconvenience or frustrate us - just as you would throw away a lawnmower that no longer pleased you.Jordan,

"See, you are really not interested in discussing the situation rationally, you have decided to name call and have a hissy fit."

So, you don't mind vilifying asylum seekers, but apparently you believe that you should be exempt from any criticism of your words. It was you, not me who said that you agree 100% with the policies of the Liberal Party. The only way in which anyone could possibly agree 100% with any party's policies is if they accept them entirely uncritically, and only a fool (a great big fool) would do that. I simply pointed out that such uncritical acceptance of a party's policy is the mark of a fool. It was you who volunteered the information that you uncritically accept the policies of the Liberal Party.

"Oh, and my statements fit perfectly with Mussolini, thats a rational response." Well, it is neither rational nor irrational. It is a simple statement of fact. You see, Mussolini was a very intelligent man, and perhaps the only real example of an intellectual of the far right. And he came up with the ideas your espouse nearly a century before you. Had things been the other idea, and you had come up with the idea of the supremacy of the corporation, I would be telling him that his views resembled yours. He, like you, believed that human beings exist purely to serve the needs of the corporate state. He defined fascism as the ultimate union of corporation and state. So, as you can see, my reference to Mussolini was entirely appropriate.Jordan,

"Whats with the corporations fetish?"

Well, perhaps it is because, unlike conservatives, I actually value the idea of democracy and a truly free market. And, because I value these things, I have taken the time to study what they are and how they may be achieved. Part of this process involves identifying possible threats to our society's development toward democracy and a genuinely free market and, when you do this, the monopoly power exercised by corporations over global markets and the "democratically elected governments" of nation-states stands out like a beacon.

Now, I enclosed the term "democratically elected governments" because I am using the word "democracy" in a relative sense. Our liberal-democratic state is more democratic than the feudal society it replaced, but is still a long way from being democratic in any absolute sense. All we have achieved so far is the ability to elect representatives to a parliament, and to recall those members for re-election every three years.

What we have achieved so far may represent only the first, tentative steps toward true democracy, we should not be dismissive of what we have achieved, and we should defend it fiercely.

The monopoly power of modern, trans-national corporations is THE major threat to the rights and freedoms we have achieved so far. Corporations can make or break elected governments in a number of ways, including the use of monopoly control over the press to fill the airwaves with anti-government propaganda (a la NewsCorp) and threats to shift their operations offshore. This ability to ruin a government's standing with the public or to wreck an economy gives corporations a huge amount of coercive power over the governments we elect and, as a direct consequence, over us. In short, we cannot call ourselves even partially democratic while the governments we elect are forced to give higher priority to the demands of corporation than to the needs, wants and aspirations of the HUMAN BEINGS they were elected to serve.

I like democracy and liberty. Corporations are a threat to democracy and liberty. Therefore, I don't like corporations.Jordan,

"This is utter garbage, TORTURE, SEND TO DEATHS? "

The treatment of the people on a customs ship in the middle of the Indian Ocean more than satisfies the internationally accepted legal definition of torture.

A young man was sent by our government to a detention centre on a remote PNG island and, while he was under the care of the Australian government, was brutally murdered. In other words, he was SENT TO HIS DEATH by our government and he died while under our care.

I can understand why you would object to emotive terms like torture and death being used in relation to acts committed in our name. But the sad reality is that their use in the particular cases referred to is entirely accurate.

Instead of objecting to the words, perhaps you should be objecting to the acts that make the use of these words so unfortunately and embarrassingly accurate. Join with other caring Australians to pressure the government for an end to offshore processing and a FULL implementation of the recommendations of the Expert Panel INCLUDING regional processing centres in Malaysia and elsewhere, and a big boost to our refugee intake..Jordan,

"No one has drowned for a while, "

How do you know? If they had, it would be an "on (under) water operational matter", wouldn't it? Remember that the government is going to EXTRAORDINARY MEASURES (including forcing doctors to doctor their diagnoses and reports) to protect your shell-pinks from news of the atrocities committed in your name. I don't know if anyone has drowned or not, and that puts me in exactly the same position as you and just about everybody else. The only way in which we would find out would be if it were reported in the Jakarta Post.

The best way to stop people from drowning is to stop them from getting on boats and the best way to do this is to facilitate the timely processing of refugee claims in properly resourced and administered transit centres along the routes taken by refugees. This is exactly what the Expert Panel recommended, and what the previous government could have put in place with the cooperation of a responsible opposition. Unfortunately, they had Mr Abbott and Mr Murdoch to deal with and a truly historic opportunity to create a lasting, workable solution was lost, along with hundreds more lives.

Of course, the previous government had enough respect for us, and for the fundamental principles of democracy, to tell us what they were doing in our name. The current government has demonstrated its contempt for us and our democracy by deciding that we cannot be trusted with the knowledge of what is being done in our name.

This is how atrocities happen. When governments decide that they are above the people and are justified in acting on our behalf but without our knowledge, the very idea of democracy is rendered meaningless and governments are released from the bonds of decency.din,

"that the USA got Ukraine to shot down a plane so Israel can do their land assault."

It is possible, but I prefer the Ockams Razor approach. The most simple hypothesis that explains the shooting down of MH17 and the circumstances surrounding it, is that it was shot down by accident while flying through a war zone.

The Israelis are consumate opportunists, and simply used the MH17 disaster as cover for an operation what was probably on the drawing board for months, just waiting for the world's attention to be distracted.

I am not saying that there is nothing more sinister and intricate going on, just that all of the known facts can be adequately explained by simpler explanations than the one you offer. I am no great fan of Israel (as you probably realise), but I am realistic about the chances of success of such intricate ruses and conspiracies and, for that reason I think that it is wiser to simly accept that Israel has simply taken the opportunity to further its camaign to ethnically cleanse Palestine while the moral compass of the world was occupied on another issue.Septic,

"Harvey, The IDF has already stated that non Israeli citizens may not be enlisted, so your question is pointless."

The IDF is not known for its truthfulness, so I wouldn't be taking their words as gospel. But there is nothing stopping Australian citizens from being Israeli citizens (except for Gentiles, that is). Every year thousands of young Australians go to Israel either to fight in the IDF or to be indoctrinated in extreme Zionism. It is a testament to the brutality and offensiveness of the current Ziono-fascist regime that many return to Australia and take up campaigning on behalf of the Palestinian resistance. Even the relentless indoctrination cannot cancel out the wrongness of Israel's crimes.LeftyRoy,

"ALL forms of tribalism are to be deplored."

I think that it is more of a matter of carefully controlling and nurturing the positive sides of tribalism rather than attempting to deny something which, whether we like it or not, is an essential and often beneficial part of our nature.

Rather than abandoning tribalism, our development as a society should provide us with a constantly expanding definition of our "tribe". Our ancestors who got this whole human society show rolling in the first place probably saw their tribe as contianing immediate family members. As society developed, larger groups of people began to see each other as being members of the same "tribe". By the time of the Great Teutonic Migration, "tribes" had grown to include tens or even hundreds of thousands of people, and it was these tribes who laid the foundations of the nations that today we call 'Europe'.

The evolution of human society has been mirrored by the relentless growth in the size of the "tribe". From small family to extended family to clan to village to region to nation.......and on to planet?

Rather than fighting tribalism, we should be building a world in which all humans see themselves as belonging to the same tribe: homo sapiens sapiens.Sea Monster,

"Saying Jews are of a more comical or comically sinister appearance than others is definitely racism and definitely not on."

The character in the cartoon was clearly a personification of the state of Israel, and was clearly not directed at Jews per se.

Drawing nations as human characters has long been considered a legitimate device of the cartoonist. The United States is often personified as "Uncle Sam" - represented by a lanky gent in star-spangled top-hat and tails, and England is often portrayed as "John Bull", who is depicted as a bulldog in a bowler hat. France is often portrayed as a rooster, and Russia as a bear. It's simply the cartoonists' shorthand if you like.

Criticism of Israel is no more anti-semitic than criticism of Nazi Germany was anti-germanic. If the government of Israel does not like being portrayed as a murdering sleazebag, then perhaps it should stop acting like Nazi Germany.Sea Monster,

"Racism is either acceptable or its not."

Crisicism of Israels attacks on innocent Palestinian civilians is not racially motivated. The motivations are entirely humanitarian. If it were the US shelling Mexican women and children, I am sure that the criticism would be even stronger.

Before World War 2, there are a considerable groundswell of opposition to the increasingly deplorable acts of the Nazi government in Germany (which was also very strong in the rhetoric on "self defence" and the "war on terrorism"). These were not motivated by the fact that Hitler or his troops were German, but by the fact that they were dropping bombs on innocent civilians in Spain, Czeckoslovakia and elsewhere. It is hardly surprising that similar acts by a nation established in recognition of the suffering of Hitler's vicitms, would attract at least some level of approbium from those who care about human rights and the sanctity of human life.

Sea Monster,

"But racist charactertures are racist, v. "

no, that simply what YOU allege. The cartoon in the Herald was no more "racist" than the depiction of England as a bulldog wearing a bowler hat. The subject of the cartoon was clearly the state of Israel and its genocidal campaign against the people of Palestine. As I said, if the victims of the shelling were Mexican or Basque, and the perpetrators were the United States or Spain, I am sure that the criticism would be just as fierce and the depictions of the perpetrators in cartoons considerably less flattering.

Remember, the conflict in Palestine is neither racial or religious in nature. The atrocities being committed by the Ziono-fascist government of Israel are wrong, not because the perpetrators are Jewish, but because forcing people to evacuate their homes so that they are concentrated into a single location and then shelling that location is ALWAYS wrong regardless of who does it.

Unlike individual human beings, nation-states do not have an automatic right to exist. The same is true for the right to self defence. If a nation state cannot defend itself within the limits set by international humanitarian law (which are very, very permissive), the ethical foundations of the state are inevitably compromised. The nation-state imposed upon the people of Palestine by the UN is not acting in the best interests of the people of Palestine and should therefore be replaced with a more workable model. The European and American migrants who have flooded in since the imposition of Israel on Palestine should be given the choice of returning to their places of origin or living in Palestine as Palestinians.

I cannot believe that anyone really believes that the continued partition of Palestine is a viable long-term solution. Palestine worked well as a polyglot, multicultural, multi-faith society for hundreds of years (once they got rid of the crusaders) and would have continued to be so had it not been for a deluge of European economic migrants and the total destruction of Palestinian civil society by a well-intentioned but disastrously misguided gesture from the UN.mike,

"Colmery, Israel withdrew all its settlers from Gaza back in 2005"

Israel evacuated Europeans from Gaza in 2005 when the aquifer which makes up Gaza's only source of fresh water became polluted with sea water. To inderstand how such a disaster can be allowed to happen, you have to realise that those who call themselves "Israeli" are Europeans who are used to living in water-rich countries like Germany and France. Gaza is a semi-arid strip of land. At its peak, the European population of Gaza represented 6% of the total, and yet that 6% consumed 94% of the water.

And this is the thing. The Europeans who moved into Gaza did not want to be Palestinians. They had no respect for the land and simply continued to live European lifestyles that quickly drained the aquifer (swimming pools and lawns that are constantly bneing watered generally don't sit well with the realities of life on the edge of the desert). When salt water contaminated the aquifer, the Europeans simply abandoned Gaza. WHere did they go? That's an easy one. You know all the fights over new Israeli settlements in occupied lands? Who do you think is moving in there?

Israel needs to wind itself up. It is, after all, just an abstract entity. Those Europeans who wish to stay in Palestine should be welcomed on the condition that they live as Palestinians and swear their allegiance to Palestine, and those who do not wish to should return to their country of origin. While Israel exists, there will be trouble. Palestine cannot unite as a nation until it is whole in territory.

The two-state solution is a recipe for continued instability and conflict int he Middle East - which is why those who profit from such instability are so keen on it.Andrew,

" And all non-indigenous Australians should do the same in Australia. Care to comment "

Probably best to ask indigenous Australians how they would like us to redress the serious issues caused by our presence before we go making assumptions.

Personally, I think that most indigenous Australians would be happy to be recognised as the  original occupants, discoverers and owners of the land on which Australia has been established. The best way of doing this would be through a treaty in which the indigenous nations recognise the existence of a nation-state called Australia on their land, and give formal consent to its continued existence and the authorities of its institutions and laws.

But that is only what I have managed to glean from years of friendship with members of many indigenous nations. I could be wrong, and they may want something totally different. And I must admit at least one selfish reason for wanting a treaty.

You see, I "own" the land on which my house stands, but the legal provenance of that land only extends back about 100 years. Before that it belonged to the people of an indigenous nation and it is pretty clear that they never voluntary ceded title over the land to its first registered "owner". And there are an awful lot of Australians (anyone who owns land) who are in the same position as me.

I'd like to see this sorted out so that I can feel that I own my land fair and square, without the need for quotation marks.mike,

" if Israel wanted to wipe out the Palestinian Muslims they could have easily done so long ago."

No, as you have seen over the past week or so, even the western powers, biased as they are in Israel's favour, have their limits. For this reason it is necessary for Israel to conduct of its campaign of ethnic cleansing in a piecemeal manner, exploiting any opportunity to commit fresh atrocities while the attention of the world is momentarily diverted. That is why there has been some speculation that Mossad may have been involved in the downing of MH17. While I don't subscribe to this speculation myself, I can see how some may jump to that conclusion.

Remember, Hitler was the darling of western plutocrats and aristocrats until he went to far and turned genocide and ethnic cleansing into industrial processes. The Ziono-fascists who have taken over Israel may be mad, but they are not stupid. They cannot risk alienating public opinion in the US in particular, and losing $40 billion dollars a year in military aid, and they know it.

Slow genocide is genocide just the same as fast genocide. But we are more likely to notice if it happens all at once, and less likely to care if it happens over time, when our back is turned.APM,

" the Palestinians are still continuing their offensive"

There is no "palestinian offensive" - the Palestinians are acting entirely in self-defence. Palestine is an occupied country. While it remains occupied, the local people have every right to defend themselves and their homeland by attacking the occupuiers.

Israel can stop the fighting overnight simply by committing to a complete and unconditional withdrawal from occupied territory. This would remove the main point of contention. 

This has been the main problem all along, You cannot simply come in and proclaim a new nation on  territory that is already occupied. The land now occupied by European residences still belongs to Palestinians.

I believe that the European population of Palestine should be given a choice of living in Palestine and accepting the soveregnty of a Palestinian government, or going back to Europe where they came from. The idea of a "two-state" solution on the territory of one state is so absurd that it is surprisng that anyone had the gall to sugget it in the first place. European Jews must realise that there was already someone home when they arrived in Palestine and that, if they want to live in Palestine, they should do so as Palestinians.Roger,

"anti-Semitic"

Israel is a NATION-STATE. Criticism of Israel is not more "anti-Semitic" than criticism of our stupid Tory government is "anti-Australian".

Your big problem this time, Roger, is that the world is finally losing patience and asking the obvious question: why do we judge Israel by different standards to other nations? Why does Israel have a special dispensation that allows them and them alone to launch unprovoked attacks on their neighbours, to engage in "collective punishment", and to attack civilian infrastructure?

The other really big problem you face is that Jews around the world are starting to rise up and become the strongest voices criticising the genocidal behaviour of the Israeli government. Does this make these Jewish people "anti-Semitic"?

The simple fact is that Israel exists on land owned by someone else. Despite it's frequent claims that it commits its genocidal attacks in "self-defence", the simple fact remains that, while you occupy someone else's land, you really don't have much moral right to defend it against their attempts to reclaim it.Sir Ivor,

I think that you are a bit rough on diplomacy in claiming that WW1 was the result of some sort of diplomatic failure. WW1 was the result of a collapse in world markets during the 1890's, which created the necessary conditions for war in Europe a full 20 years before the outbreak of hostilities. It was the furious, frantic and increasingly desperate work of diplomats that kept the nations of Europe from each other's throats for two decades. But even they must have realised that their efforts would ultimately prove futile. History is an unstoppable juggernaut - sometimes you can stave off the inevitable but, like water, the forces of history will always prevail.

By the late 1800s, just about every nation in Europe had an "empire" in what we now call the "Third World". These empires had been made necessary by the inevitable tendency of capitalist economies to expand and simulatneously saturate existing markets while depleting non-renewable resources.

The problem is that imperialism only provides a temporary solution. Eventually, there is nowhere left to colonise and, when this happens, nations start scrappin over bits and pieces that have already been colonised.

So, in 1914 the conditions for war had existed for 20 years and the final straw was when some crazy pan-Slavic nationalist took a pot shot at some minor royal. This was simply a trigger. The war would have still happened, but it would have been triggered by another incident.

Niow, the really scary thing is that the conditions in Europe today bear an eerie resemblance to the circumstances in Europe a century ago. And that's why it's probably not such a good idea to have our foreign minister in Europe, risking an incident between Australian troops and Ukraine and/or rebel troops, that could be 2014's answer to Sarajevo 1914.

It is hard to see how war in Europe can be avoided in the long term. It WILL happen simply because the forces already set in motion will ensure that it happens. All that is required is a trigger, and it looks like Bishop headed off to Europe with a whole boxfull of them.JoeBloggs,

"Quite true, the Russians are attempting to creating the necessary conditions to enable the fufillment of their expansionistic policies"

And your post shows that the stupid jingoism that allowed civilisation to collapse in 1914 is still alive and strong too.

THERE ARE NO GOOD GUYS IN THIS CONFLICT - JUST AS THERE WERE NO GOOD GUYS IN 1914.

This will be a fight between bad guys. All of them will be wearing black hats that will appear as white as the virgin snow to their gormless followers.

You just don't get it. According to the German/Austro-Hungarian alliance, God was on their side. According to the western allies, God was on their side.

Only the Russians had the sense to shoot their real enemies: officers who told them to shoot their fellow workers.

Next time some idiot decides that he needs a war, we SHOULD refuse to fight and turn our aggression against those urging us to fight. The Nuremburg trials removed once and for all the defence of "I was just following orders". If we take up arms against another human being purely because somebody tells us too, we are as bad as those issuing the orders.Ben,

"The people that voted the Coalition in."

From the rather consistent trend in polling over the last few months it appears that a large number of the people you refer to have changed their minds. They no longer support Mr Abbott or his policies. Besides, I don't remember any slogan saying "Abuse the Children" - all I remember was a sad caricature of Popeye  endlessly repeating another three-word-slogan: "Stop the Boats".

At the moment, there is a Royal Commission going on into institutional responses to child abuse. In the past, we have seen shocking and distressing revelations come out of similar inquiries into Aboriginal deaths in custody, the Stolen Generation and the institutional abuse of child migrants. All of these inquiries have revealed details of cases in which governments that were elected democratically by the people, have failed in their duty of care to human beings either in their custody or under their care and "protection".

Now, I couldn't give a tinker's cuss about what Mr Morrison thinks of their parents, the kids on Christmas island are not "unauthorised entrants", "illegal immigrants" or "economic migrants", they are CHILDREN - little, vulnerable human beings who, hopefully, will grow into adults and make a great contribution to the world. They have every right to look upon all adults as their protectors and we, as adults, have a solemn duty to provide them with the care, nurturing and support that they need to fulfil their potential. That's what Jesus was talking about when he said "suffer the little children how come unto me". He was urging his disciples to tolerate, accept and embrace the little children, not make them suffer. Mr Abbott, as a follower of Jesus, appears to have gotten his wires crossed on this one.

I suppose that, one day, when the dust has settled and our senses and humanity have returned to us, a future PM will stand up in Parliament and apologise to the victims of abuse on Christmas Island. When that day comes there will be some crusty old fossils who will dig up John Howard's argument that the abusers of the past were doing what was considered right at the time. Well this time they will be wrong. The Australian people DO NOT support child abuse - not in schools, not in scout troops, not in churches, not in detention centres. They never have, and they never will.muzz,

"The Pope a true christian opposes most what these so called Catholics practice."

Perhaps we should go to the horses moth on this one:

"Suffer the little children who come unto me" doesn't mean that children should suffer. It means that we should embrace, tolerate and nurture little children.

Jesus also said that anyone who harms a child should have a mill-stone tied around the neck and be dropped into the deepest part of the ocean.

Now this is probably a bit harsh, but I think that what Jesus was trying to say was that the abuse of children, either through commission of harm or neglect of one's duty of care, is the most heinous of crimes.

Now I am not a Christian. But this does not mean that I discount or ignore the wisdom to be found in text like the Bible. It is sad that many of those baying most insistently for the continued abuse of children in our care will probably turn up to Church this Sunday and sing their lungs out, take a wafer and a swig, shake the vicars hand, go home, and neatly fold and pack away their Christianity until next Sunday.

I think that the whole point of morality is that you are supposed to live by it all the time, not just when it suits you. Abusing children is not just wrong when you are sitting in Church, its always wrong. And you don't have to be a Christian to know that.Oaktree,

"I beg to differ, this is about International Law"

Do we really need international law to tell us that neglecting or abusing children under our care is wrong?

I certainly hope not."This isn't about migration it's about economic queue jumpers."

No Ray, its about CHILDREN - you know, small, vulnerable, trusting human beings who look to us, as adults, for guidance, protection and care.

You may not be a child yourself, but you have a long way to go before you can call yourself an adult.Judy,

"Wouldn't have equated a Tory with cruelty"

Really? I would have thought that the two were simply different sides of the same coin.

Tories invented concentration camps. One of the most famous and revered Tories in history, Winston Churchill was a pioneer of the aerial deployment of chemical weapons - he used the Kurds of northern Iraq as his "test subjects", and, with Arthur "Bomber" Harris, devised a system of aerial bombardment aimed at creating a "new type of weather" (the "firestorm") in the residential areas of cities with the specific intention of asphyxiating and incinerating its residents. He chose Hamburg and Dresden as his targets because there were large numbers of civilian refugees gathered there. The stated aim of this murderous policy was to "show the Russians what we are capable of". No wonder they saw us as barbarians.

I don't believe that being cruel is a necessary condition for being a Tory (all that is required is a narcissistic personality), but it sure helps you get to the top. Have a look at the records of some other famous Tories (Pinochet and Salazar are good examples).yank,

"Because a majority supported Abbott doesn't make him right."

Abbott is PM because the coalition won the largest minority of votes, not a majority. The majority voted for parties other than the Liberal or National Parties.

But this is beside the point. Mr Morrison's policies of secrecy and the denial of essential medical care to children were not put to the people at the last election. Mr Abbott cannot implicate the Australian people in his crimes. Mr Abbott is the Prime Minister and the responsibility is his.

One day, the responsibility will fall upon another Prime Minster to apologise, on behalf of the Australian people, for the atrocities committed by this government.Simon,

"The public utiiltiy of these laws is that content producers get paid for thier work. - they will then make more content. - simple really. "

So, if we buy more Beatles recordings through legal channels, John Lennon and George Harrison will come back to life, the Beatles will re-form and "make more content"? Are you sure about that? Would you care to lay a small wager?

Very few artists in the music industry have any control whatsoever of the music they produce once they have signed with one of the monopoly corporations who control the IP industry. These corporations add absolutely nothing to the artistic process and, more often than not, stymie genuine creativity by demanding formula-driven content. They also create a barrier between artists and their audiences that is frustrating for both.

Recording companies used to have a place because recording high quality music required lots of expensive equipment, and manufacturing the old shelack and vynil record platters required lots of plant and equipment. It took an expert to work the recording equipment, and it took recording companies to employ them.

This is no longer the case. My loungeroom is a more capable recording studio (when I remember to switch off the fridge) than the Abbey Road studios were when the Beatles were recording. The recording and distribution of music has become scalable and this makes the enormous corporations who dominate intellectual property entirely redundant.'

And this is what the debate is really about. The IP monopolists need copyright for their survival. Artists don't need the IP monoplists and don't need copyright. Their audiences don't need copyright. What both need is a better way of ensuring that artists (not shareholders) can receive a fair return for their creative work and audiences can access content affordably and conveniently. Pandering to the monopolists by clinging to copyright is stopping this new system from emerging.

Oh - by the way, "piracy" originally referred to the activities of unauthorised radio stations broadcasting from ships just outside the UK's territorial waters at a time when the BBC held a monopoly on radio broadcasts. It made sense back then because the "pirates" were operating from ships. Now it is just a weasel word.Jay,

"Piracy", "theft"......weasel words. I am sure that if Malcolm thought he could get away with calling it "terrorism" he would.

"Piracy", as you have pointed out, is the act of forcibly waylaying a ship at see. "Theft" is the act of depriving someone of the possession and enjoyment of something that they own.

Downloading a file without the permission of the owner is generally an activity conducted on dry land, although there is nothing stopping it from happening at seas as well I suppose. It's just that people who are at sea are usually busy with being at sea, not downloading videos. And it does not deprive the owner of possession or enjoyment of their possession, so it cannot be called "theft".

Think of it for a moment. I see a nice statue peeing into a fountain in a small Italian town while travelling through Europe. On my return home I use my photographic memory (I am being hypothetical here) and advanced sculpting skills (also hypothetical) to create an exact copy in my garden. Have I committed an act of piracy? Have I deprived the people of the small Italian town of the possession and enjoyment of their prized statue? Clearly the answer is no in both cases.

Copyright died when digital technology was born. The two are entirely contradictory, and many of the greatest advantages of digital technology are yet to be realised simply as a result of our irrational adherence to an antiquated legal fiction that relies entirely on an inextricable link between message and medium.

Artists deserve to be rewarded for their work, but copyright has always been a very inefficient of doing this. It requires middlemen, and the corporations who have become the middlemen extract almost all of the wealth in the transaction, leaving very little for the person who actually created the intellectual property in the first place.

We need a better way - one which uses the advantages of digital technology and high-speed communications to connect artist directly with their without the need for middlemen.

But that is the last thing that Rupert (the biggest middleman of all) wants and, when we are talking about the Liberal Party, he who pays the piper calls the tune.jimmy,

"where is the exploitation?"

Actually I think that this is an inappropriate use of the word. "Extort" would have been a more appropriate word to use.

Buit, as you  asked, I may as well enlighten you on where the "exploitation" comes in, and here I am speaking as a musician who both performs and records.

Artists (musicians, painters, writers and such) create content for human audiences. The products of their work are, in most cases, controlled by large corporations who have monopolistic or oligopolistic control over the market for content. This allows them to use (exploit) the creative output of artists to EXTORT excessive amounts of wealth from their audiences. This resutls in artists getting less for their work than they should, and audiences paying more for enjoying their work than they should.

Our methods for rewarding creative output should FACILITATE the process of communication between artist and audience. Copyright increasingly FRUSTRATES this process and is inhibiting the development of new technologies that could even further enhance the artisitc experience for both artist and audience.JohnC,

"The creators of content are few the viewers are many."

Not quite. In fact there are lots and lots and lots of "creators of content", and even more viewers, readers and listeners. The OWNERS of content are few, but the CREATORS are many.

The OWNERS of content represent a BARRIER between the creators of content and the consumers of content.

The creators of content are human beings. The consumers of content are human beings. The obstacle between these two groups of human beings is corporate, not human.

We need to clear the blockage - pull down the barricades of copyright, and allow artists to communicate and exchange directly with their audience WITHOUT THE INTERVENTION OF CORPORATIONS. This is what Mr Murdoch fears, and this is why the government wants to force ISP's to spy on their own customers and to bully and harrass them on behalf of Mr Turnbull's corporate sponsors.Simon,

"You have no "right" to entertainment. "

You are on quite shaky ground with statements like that.

As human beings, we have three fundamental and INALIENABLE rights: The Right to Life, the Right to Liberty, and the Right to Pursue Happiness. These rights cannot be curtailed or infringed upon by the state or any other entity with justice. ANY breach or denial of these fundamental rights represents a denial of justice and a fundamental breach of the "social contract" that binds our civil society together.

As corporations, the owners of intellectual property have no rights at all. Rights are attributes of human beings. Only human beings can be truly said to have rights. It may occasionally be convenient to us to occasionally allow other entities (like corporations) privileges that mirror rights enjoyed by humans, but it must always be remembered that these "rights" are contingent on them not infringing upoin or curtailing the fundamental rights of human beings.

So, artists are human beings and therefore have the right to life, the right to liberty and the right to pursue happiness. Their audiences are also human beings and also enjoy the same rights. Copyright, as it is currently exercised by the monopoly corporations who control it, frequently conflicts with and curtails two out of the three fundamental and INALIENABLE rights: the right to Liberty and the right to Pursue Happiness. It places barriers between aritists and their audiences, which is a breach of the fundamental right to Liberty as expressed in the freedom of communication and association, and of the fundamental right to Pursue Happiness.

Sometimes the exercise by individual human beings can impact upon the rights of another human being and, in such cases, we use the courts to sort things out. But, in a conflict between the operations or needs of a non-human entity like a corporation, and the fundamental rights of a human being, the fundamental rights of the human being must ALWAYS prevail WITHOUT EXCEPTION.

You cannot get a more fundamental principle of democracy that this. It is REALLY important, if we value democracy, to have a clear idea of our rights, where they come from, and what they actually mean. You have some catching up to do.PW,

"He now expects his company's completely outdated business model to be the problem of the Government,"

That's right - you have hit the nail on the head.

Copyright law relies on the "message" being inextricably linked to the "medium". It worked when it was impossible to make an exact copy of something. There are a few corporations (literally a handful) who have built their fortunes by acting as "robber barons" - standing between artists and their audiences and demanding exhorbitant "tolls" for communication between them.

Digital technology has done away with all this. Artists can now record high quality music with very little outlay on equipment and with reasonably basic recording skills, and distribute this music directly through the internet, and it is possible to record high quality live video footage on your phone and, with the right skills, create your own video content. Authors can produce professional-quality publications and publish them directly as e-books on the internet. What we really need is a legal framework that facilitates these new ways of distributing IP and connecting artists with their audiences and the biggest obstacle in the way is copyright and the monopoly corporations who rely on it for their stranglehold over our creative landscape.

When steel beer kegs emerged, there were probably a few companies who had staked their fortunes on cornering the market in barrel staves. They were probably sorely wounded when steel kegs made their hoard of staves worthless. Would it really have made sense for the government to block the use of steel kegs simply to keep the redundant cooperages in business?

Our society and our economy are dynamic entities. Conditions are in a state of constant flux and it is up to enterprises to adapt or die. The corporations who monopolise IP have become ossified by their monopoly power and are incapable of adapting. Only corrupt intervention by government to place the interests of these redundant behmoths above the RIGHTS of citizens can save them. That is exactly what Mr Turnbull is proposing, and I say that it is way too high a price to pay simply to keep redundant corporations alive.GrahamH,

"Where workers already paying taxes have to have private health or get slugged more to pay for others health."

You are right, of course. Norway's success is not entirely due to it's success in limiting super-profits and getting full value from its mineral reserves. And our relative failure is not entirely due to our lack of an MRRT.

We could have a health system as good as Norway's or even Cuba's. It would cost us less and provide a much better spread of services across the entire community (not just those who can afford it). All we need to do is concentrate our efforts entirely on providing a SINGLE, unified health system. Now this means that we either have to drop the public health system and leave it up to private enterprise, or that we have to drop the private sector entirely and rely on a totally public health system.

We already know that the private sector is neither interested in or capable of providing a comprehensive health service to all Australians. The private sector has always been content to infest the more profitable areas of health service provision and leave the heavy lifting to the taxpayer, and that is a commercially rational decision. We don't need the private sector in health, so we shouldn't bother with it.

You are quite right. It is offensive in the extreme that working Australians pay a special levy for Medicare, but still have to subsidise the advertising and marketing activities of the private health providers, and provide a 30% subsidy to the private health insurance industry.

The sad fact is that private involvement in the health system makes the provision of a world-class health system too expensive for us to afford. ALL of the moist successful health systems in the world are 100% public.

Our health dollars should pay for doctors to treat patients, not for insurers to advertise their products.Waterloo,

"however the fact remains that we are borrowing their money"

The fact also remains that Norway can afford to lend us money because they tax miners appropriately, don't waste public money on subsidies to private health insurers, and take proper steps to ensure that the potential wealth encapsulated in their mineral deposits is realised in ways that benefit the Norwegian people rather than foreign shareholders.

The only reason that we are not in a similar or even better position is that we have had many years of Tory government, which has ensured that our economy remains inefficient and antiquated to protect the vested interests of their foreign sponsors. We have to borrow money from the Norwegians because, while we have been vacillating between social democracy and Tory influence peddling, the Norwegians have not strayed from the path of Social Democratic development.

If we had had more Labor governments and fewer Tory governments since WW2, our economy and civil society would be closer to Norway's and less reminiscent of Haiti's (the only country in the world with a truly free market)."he would be hammering hard on Washington's many "inadequacies"....

Especially the wooden teeth.tator,

"Norway and Australia have totally different governmental structures due to the different ways each nation was formed. "

So what? If you are going to throw in red herrings, here's one right back at you: There is no such thing as a fish with ears.

We are talking about how governments tax and spend, not about how nations came to be.

Australia and Norway have some things in common. Among these is mineral wealth. The Norwegians have lots of gas and oil, we have lots of all sorts of neat dirt from which you can make all sorts of useful materials (steel, copper, aluminium, etc, etc).

And there are some differences. Norway has a strict "resource rent" regime which requires anyone exploiting Norwegian mineral resources to contribute in quite a significant way to Norway's exchecquer. Historically, Australia has not had such a regime and foreign corporations have largely been free to decide how much tax they pay and how much wealth they extract from our economy.

It is not surprising, therefore, that the economic fortunes of Australia and Norway would diverge somewhat over time. While Norway is in a position to lend us money, we are squabbling over whether we can afford to borrow from them. If you get two buckets, one entire and one with a hole in it, and fill them both from the same well, the one that leaks will have less water in it as time passes.

Our wealth bucket has a huge hole in it. Norway's wealth bucket is still sound. That's why they can afford to lend us money and why we aren't sure if we can afford to borrow it. Perhaps we should learn from them.Forrest,

"Yank, miners pay royalties to the states and income tax to the commonwealth."

The whole idea of the MRRT was to limit the damage done to our economy by the excessive profits generated by mining corporations.

You need to remember that profit is a component of a thing called "economic rent", which is a cost to the economy. If you want to keep your economy healthy and relatively stable, the first thing you must do is get your costs under control, and this means limiting economic rent to the minimal sustainable level.

Our economy is like a machine. The inputs are human labour power, raw materials and capital. The output is wealth which can be used to satisfy the needs and wants of the human participants. Obviously, we will get the most efficient and effective economy by maximising the differential between what it costs to produce the wealth and the wealth produced (in othe rwords, minimising inputs and maximising outputs).

Over the past forty years, there has been a serious decline in economic efficiency. Forty years ago, every dollar of wealth we created with our labour power returned more than 85c in the form of personal income (wages and salaries) and government services. Five years ago, for every dollar of wealth we produced with our labour power returned less than 73c to us in  the form of wages, salaries and government services.

Now obviously, if the cost of access to capital has blown out from less that 15% of GNI to over 27% of GNI, governments are going to struggle to provide the services we demand and we are going to struggle on a personal level, just to make ends meet.

The aim of the MRRT was to limit the damage done to the economy by excessive extraction of "super-profits" (income over and above covering costs and providing a REASONABLE return on investment). Under the tax, miners will still make handsome profits, but they willno longer be able to extract whatever they please from our economy.

Oh, by the way, Norway is in a position to lend us money because they tax super-profits on mining and we don't.Forrest,

"explain why a flat rate of 30% is appropriate for all other corporations in all other industries"

It's surprisingly simple and straightforward in fact, Forrest.

Mining is a unique activity. The act of mining, in itself, produces very little wealth. Ores in the ground aren't worth much because their only use is for standing on, and you can do that just as well on ordinary dirt. Digging up dirt doesn't really make it terribly much more useful. The only real increase in utility achieved is that you have made it easer for the ore to be refined by digging it up. If nothing was done to the dirt dug up by miners, nobody would bother. Just about all the value of the stuff we get from miners is added after it leaves their hands, when the ores are turned first into useful materials and then into the products that we use.

In a genuine free market, the result of this would be that miners would be pretty impoverished sorts of critters because their furious labours produce so little value. But we don't have a free market, especially when it comes to mining. There are only a handful of entities in the world with the necessary financial resources to construct the enormous projects designed to extract minerals from various parts of the world. These corporations use their oligopolistic control of markets to distort market conditions and generate super-profits for themselves. As the vast majority of shareholders of these corporations are concentrated in the US and a few European countries, the extraction of super-profits by mining corporations represents a haemorrhage of wealth for the economies of most countries, including Australia. The wealth extracted has to be generated by other industries in the economy, but is not available in the consumer market to fuel demand because most of it is expatriated.

The responsibility falls therefore, on governments, to stem the wealth haemorrhage by imposing resource-rent and super-profit taxes and to use the income to fund the development of sustainable manufacturing industries that can utilise OUR mineral resources to create wealth in the Australian economy, rather than simply lining the pockets of foreign shareholders.

Resource rent and super taxes go some way to redressing the distortions created in capitalist markets by capturing excessive profits and redirecting the misappropriated wealth back into the domestic market, where it can fuel investment in PRODUCTIVE industry. See? Told you it was simple!Graham H,

"Labor took us towards the Greek fork in road. Debt."

When the GFC hit, Australia followed Mr Swan's solution (stimulus) and the Greeks followed Mr Hockey's solution (austerity).

As a result of our following Mr Swan's solution, we have a small and manageable public debt, unemployment at around 5%,low inflation, a AAA credit rating from all ratings agencies, strong economic activity and strong investment activity.

As a result of Greece following Mr Hockey's strategy, their economy collapsed, the government was forced to cede sovereignty over the economy to German bankers, riots broke out across the country, their credit rating was reduced to junk-bond status, and there is even talk of Greece having to sell off some Mediterranean Islands just to stay afloat.

The proof of the pudding, as they say, is in the eating.sceptic,

"The actions of Labor translates into spending the nest egg that the Liberals saved."

The whole point of having a nest egg is to spend it when you need to.

The problem is that, when a crisis the size of the GFC hits, you really need a nest-egg laid by an ostrich, not a quail. And all that Mr Swan was left with, after a decade of unprecedented international economic prosperity that was particularly favourable for Australia, was a quail's egg.

Had Mr Swan also had access to the tens, if not hundreds of billions wasted on baby bonuses, overweight torpedoes, radioactive second-hand tanks, flightless helicopters, subsidies to health insurance corporations, two futile wars, offshore gulags, the first home owner schemes and other calamitous social-engineering experiments, we could have sailed through the GFC using an ostrich-sized nest egg without having to borrow even a cup of sugar.

As it turned out, Mr Swan was able to achieve what many of his peers considered to be a miracle with a quite meagre surplus left over from eleven years of pro-cyclical splurging. As I have said before, we should be very grateful to him.fredn,

"Still off topic, but if you are correct, IF, how is the MRRT damaging the mining industry?"

Yes, that is a rather large hole in the Tories' argument.

The really sad thing about the MRRT is that very few actually have a clue what it was or how it worked.

Over the past decade or so there has been a surge of investment in new mines, which has temporarily inflated the economy of Western Australia and robbed the manufacturing industries on the east coast of skilled labour. The MRRT was introduced toward the end of this phase of the cycle, and was principally designed to meet the circumstances presented by the next logical phase of the process - the exploitation and export of the mineral deposits around which the infrastructure has been built.

Developing a new mine creates lots of short-term job opportunities and those who are in a position to take advantage of them can make a lot of money a short time. But developing a new mine doesn't make any money for the owner of the mine. It is only when they start to dig up the dirt and ship it out that the bucks start rolling in, and that is when the MRRT starts to make sense. The MRRT ensures that mining corporations can make fair profits, and that anything else remains in Australia and benefits Australians through an enhanced capability of government to invest in productive infrastructure.

It's precisely the sort of thing you need to do if you want to build a strong and prosperous nation.EEL,

"Low interest rates? I hope you're aware that low interest rates suggest that the economy needs stimulation, not that it's necessarily performing well. "

In 2007. Mr Howard said "Who do you trust to keep interest rates low?" at the time the economy was running hot (thanks to Howard's bizzarre pro-cyclical settings) and there was a real need to push up interest rates to dampen activity and keep inflation (which had also started to rise rapidly) under control. Swan raised interest rates slightly and managed to get the inflation genie released by Howard back into the bottle, and thank heaven he did because lurking just around the corner was the worst international economic crisis since the 1930's. Had Swan not got the runaway ibnflatin left to him by Howard under control as quickly as he did, we would have been in no fit state to respond when the GFC hit. Howard left the economy dangerously exposed. Swan fixed it just in time.

Now, let's have a look at interest rates and inflation, and what they tell you about an economy. Interest rates can be low for any number of reasons. Usually, however, governments put pressure on central banks to lower interest rates as a way of stimulating the economy if economic activity begins to lag. The prpblem with using interest rates as a stimulus measure is that there is a considerable lag between implementation and effect. This allows the downturn to gain significant momentum that lower interest rates alone are powerless to resist.

Swan inherited a ticking time bomb and managed to defuse it in time to respond to the GFC. His use of direct fiscal stimulus (direct payments to consumers) and targetted infrastructure spending was so timely and precise that the positive effects were distributed across the entire economy and we avoided the "dead zones" experienced overseas (where entire communities, including cities as large as Detroit, Michigan, went broke). We have low interest rates, low inflation, and low unemployment largely because Australia acted quickly, and this kept the cost of the stimulus to a tiny fraction of what was spent in other countries (to far less effect). By comparison, the US is still printing (borrowing) $25 billion a month, just to keep its economy going. We also managed to come through the GFC with a tiny public debt when compared to any of our competitors.

All in all, you would have to concede that Swan handled things brilliantly, and we all have a lot to thank him for (especially our jobs).Andie,

298 people died a little while ago, because a rather obvious (in hindsight) flaw in our air traffic control systems allowed the plane they were flying in to collide with an anti-aircraft missile. These people placed their faith in the air traffic control system to keep them safe and it failed them.

I would suggest to you that this is not really an appropriate time for engaging in the type of childish nonsense for which your posts are rapidly becoming notorious. You should really be showing at least some respect to the victims by either making a sensible contribution to the debate over how to stop this happening again, and how to stop it from becoming a major European conflict, or reserving your comments for your close friends and family, who probably have more tolerance for your childishness than anyone reading your comments.Ben,

"I would say it's probably better than attacking politician's family members, wouldn't you?"

This is simply another example of the shallow thinking that Yank was talking about. Whether something is better or worse than attacking a politician's family members is not really the topic of the current discussion. It is what is known as a "red herring".

I am sure that you are clever enough to make a useful contribution to the debate, but you must first realise that it has nothing to do with domestic politics. Your habitual tit-for-tat replies look even sillier and shallower in the context of a serious debate about Australia's response to a very serious international situation that could easily spiral out of control into a war that nobody wants.

Using the international stage as a grandstand for domestic politics is a dangerous gamble, even for the most skilled of statesmen, and Mr Abbott is certainly not one of these. He should, at least, be man enough to realise this.EM,

"The geo-political necessity is that Australia needs access to the crash site of which is in a war zone."

The really sad thing is that this is not what Australia needs at all. Australia needs Mr Abbott to address some serious issues at home, like the shambles that the budget has become, for example and, above all, we need Ms Bishop to come home, or go on a nice holiday somewhere with extremely primitive telecommunications services.

It would be far more convenient for everyone concerned if MH17 had crashed somewhere other than in the middle of a war zone. But, considering that MH17 only crashed because it was flying through a war zone, it is probably a little unreasonable to expect it to crash outside a war zone. But, had this been the result, the investigation could have been carried out in an orderly way and we would probably have learned, after much exhaustive investigation, that MH17 was shot down by a missile.

Unfortunately, the result of MH17's collision with a missile over a war zone was entirely predictable. It crashed in the middle of the war zone. This makes the aforementioned meticulous forensic investigation just as impossible as it would be if the flight had crashed somewhere in the Indian Ocean.

We already know that MH17 was shot down by a missile over a war zone. It doesn't take an Einstein to figure out that we can eliminate the risk of a repeat performance by not flying over war zones in future. That is what Mr Abbott and Ms Bishop should be concentrating on.EM,

I am not dissagreeing with what you are saying, which mankes perfect sense. I am simply trying to place things in the proper perspective.

Cooperation is not something that you usually associate with war zones. Even IF Abbott and Bishop had the diplomatic skill to negotiate some sort of MOU with the Russians, this is likely to have very little effect on the ground. After all, the Ukrainian president is "cooperating" by promising a ceasefire, but continuing the shelling regardless, so why would you expect a different reaction from the other side.

For Australia, the most important consideration at the moment is MH17 - what happened and why. But we need to remember that such issues tend to fade into insignificance when you are involved in a hot war with mortar shells and missiles crashing to the ground around you. This in no way diminishes the terrible tragedy of what was an entirely preventable disaster. But its just that this disaster happened right in the middle of an even bigger disaster that has the potential to develop into an even bigger disaster engulfing the whole of Europe.

I suggest that we should all think very carefully about the implications of this. There is no question that Mr Abbott's desire to "Bring Them Home" is just and proper (although the same cannot be said for his attempts to milk the issue for political advantage). But sometimes the juggernaut of history sweeps over even significant tragedies like the crash of MH17 and, in such circumstances we need to widen our view and accept that, regardless of how important something is, we are powerless to control the outcome and can only cause harm by attempting to do so.

I agree that Mr Abbott's behaviour has unnecessarily alienated the Russians, but in his defence, I suspect strongly that he is being used rather cynically by his "friends" in the US and EU to ensure that the open sore of this conflict cannot heal. This would not be the first time this has happened. Menzies visited similar humiliation upon us during the Suez Crisis.frangipani,

A missile hit a passenger jet that was flying through a war zone. Whether Russia was involved or not is completely irrelevant. Nothing at all is to be gained by arguing about stuff that none of us could possibly know with any certainty.

But we do know, with total certainty, that the 298 people who died when their plane exploded over the Ukraine did not need to die. We have elaborate international and domestic systems in place to ensure that this sort of thing does not happen. They failed. We need to know how and why. That way, we may be able to fix things so that this sort of thing cannot happen again.

But there is something else to consider as well. Europe is on the brink of war and has been since the fall of the Soviet Union. But just at the moment, the alignment of interests and forces places the whole of Europe in great danger of a general conflagration. Mr Abbott is a novice in the field of international relations and his arrogant language and aggressive demeanour suggest that his prospects for rapid conversion into a skilled diplomat are slight, to be kind. I am sure that Mr Abbott would not like to go down in history as the bloke who kicked the lantern into the straw. He should leave this one to the grown-ups.Roger,

"Strange how the US President, the Dutch PM and many other European leaders, the Malaysian PM, the Security Council of the UN have all praised the approach and efforts of Mr Abbott and Ms Bishop in particular, and the Australian Government in general."

One of the essential tools of statecraft is the ability to tolerate and be polite to fools. The Abbott/Bishop sideshow is probably testing their abilities, but so far they have not stumbled in their courtesy. If, however, you judge Abbott and Bishop on their success in achieving what they set out to do, you would have to admit that they have failed miserably.

But back here in the real world, the debate has moved on. Most have accepted the impossibility of any sort of organised and meticulous investigation of the crash site while it remains in the middle of a war zone. But there is an awful lot to be learned from what we already know. For example, we already know that the decision to direct a tin full of civilians through a war zone was a mistake that cost 298 lives. We also know that civilian airliners have been brought down in other conflicts. This should tell us all that we need to know to direct our attention to the system that allowed a tin full of civilians to fly into the path of an anti-aircraft missile.

There is nothing that either Mr Abbott or Ms Bishop can do to enhance or secure access to the crash site. This is largely up to the people fighting the war. Maybe soon they will move on or make friends and, when this happens it would be appropriate for Australia to offer help in the form of skilled air crash investigators, but only if those running the investigation ask for them. Unarmed Australian police can't do much. Armed police can only make things worse. They should come home to their families who, I am sure, miss them very much and would hate to see them hurt in the crossfire of someone else's war.cbl,

"I think it was the escaped panther"

I seem to recall that it was Sylvester in Mr Hyde mode. It was set in Victorian London and I think that Sylvester was a lab cat who accidentally drank Dr Jekyll's "tonic".

Isn't it funny how these remembered mental images are so often shared amongst us. I think this has a lot to do with why "The Simpsons" has been so successful (it is built out of the shared memories of baby-boomers). "Spike and Chester" used to instantly spring to mind whenever I saw John Howard and George Dubbya together and, you are quite right, Abbott's fawning capers on the international stage probably correlate even more closely with the fawning sycophancy parodied by the cartoon.

Thanks for reminding me.Dave,

"What sort of cowards do you think Australians are."

Australians, just like the Greeks, Dutch, Samoans, Canadians, Basque, Mexicans and everbody else on the planet, are individual human beings. Some are cowards, some are brave, most are both.

Thing is, Dave, Australia is not the whole world. I used to be amazed by the number of American tourists I picked up from the airport in my bus, who were blissfully unaware that each nation had its own currency, and were horribly offended to find that you couldn't pay for a bus ride in Sydney with greenbacks. I am afraid that your posts demonstrate a similar level of insularity and innocence.

Dave, the world is a very big place and Australia is a very small place. History is a huge juggernaut that will, from time to time, embroil Australians in historically significant events, and this means that, from time to time, Australians will be hurt or killed while overseas. We are kidding ourselves if we believe that anyone can do much to change this.

But we are not totally impotent either. Thanks to the brilliant work of the Rudd and Gillard governments, Australia has a seat on the UN Security Council and, rather than wasting this extraordinary opportunity on grandstanding for a domestic audience, Ms Bishop should be pushing hard for changes to international Air Navigation Regulations to ensure that airlines do not continue to risk the lives of their passengers by flying through war zones. And, on a domestic front, our government should be exerting all the influence it can on QANTAS to ensure that it no longer risks the safety of its passengers by flying over Iraq and other conflict areas.

There may not be many votes to be won in such an exercise, but there are plenty of lives to be saved. I suggest that the government's actions indicate that it has its priroities all wrong.Tony,

"MH17 thought they were safe as well........."

That's the point - you've nailed it. Air safety is not about "thinking" that you are safe. It is not an actuarial decision, and there is no such thing as an acceptable risk.

JoeBloggs thinks that it is OK to gamble with human lives, and that the convenience of airline corporations comes before safety. I think that most airline passengers would dissagree with this most heartily.

I started flying when I was fifteen and was a fully qualified instructor at the age of 21. My chosen form of aviation was entirely experimental at the time and the only way we survived to see it become a popular form of sports aviation was by following strict and non-negotiable safety protocols. But this level of safety discipline, while being ESSENTIAL for proper stadards of aviation safety, is largely incompatible with the business models of modern corporations. If they are forced to fly around dangerous airspace, it may impact upon their bottom line, and this would not please their shareholders. The temptation is always there to cut corners with passenger safety and it is therefore the responsibility of air safety authorities to keep them in line.

I am sure that some executives in some airlines would be happy to continue flying airliners through volcanic ash clouds because the risks of engine damage are probably fairly low. But that's not how we do things in aviation. In other pursuits (like running a company) it may be acceptable to indulge in risky behaviour and only cease doing so when it is proven to be dangerous. In aviation we do it the other way around - we don't do something unless we are SURE that it is safe. And I'm still walking and breathing after forty years of flying largely because I have followed this simple rule.

Maybe if Joe learnt to fly for himself he would understand.JoeBloggs,

"Why?

Is the Russian Federation looking to deploy and use advanced airdefence systems capable of hitting aircraft at 33,000 there too?"

I terms of air safety the identity of the person firing the rocket is far less a consideration than the potential of the rocket to wreck your day. The Russian Federation does not have to be involved for a plane to be shot down. After all, the Ukrainians are also guilty of bringing down a Russian airliner fairly close to where MH17 came down.

There are a number of anti-aircraft systems capable of bringing down aircraft at altitudes well in excess of 33,000 feet. They are nothing new. A U2 flying at nearly twice that altitude was brought down by the Russians  over fifty years ago. As ISIL has cut a swathe through Iraq and Syria, it has captured a huge amount of military hardware left behind by the US, and it is highly likely that this haul of weapons includes some pretty capable anti-aircraft systems.

At least, this is the judgement of Emirates - the largest airline in the Middle East. They value the lives of their passengers enough not to take silly risks based on speculation about what weaponry may be available to this or that group.

Are you really trying to tell me that Emirates' passengers are more worthy of proper consideration being given to their safety that passengers who choose to fly QANTAS? If so, please explain to me how you came to that conclusion.Joe,

"To ban all air traffic over combat zones on planet Earth would make air travel darn near impossible."

I am afraid that this is just stuff and nonsense. Re-routing airliners around war zones is no more difficult or problematic than re-routing airliners around large storms, volcanic ash clouds, mountain waves and even more permanent hazards like mountain ranges and such. And besides, as I have already said, considerations like the viability of commercial operations are entirely irrelevant to air safety. The one and only question that is relevant is: is it safe? If you can prove that it is safe, it is OK, if you can't, you don't do it.

Now, as I have also already said, this ESSENTIAL safety regime is entirely incompatible with the nature and requirements of the modern corporation. This appears to be the basis of your argument, but you don't have to convince me on this point. My argument is that, given that the choice is between compromising the rigorous safety standards that have made aviation possible in the first place, and maintaining those standards to protect the lives of passengers, we should choose the latter over the former.

You have spent a great deal of time in your posts explaining how the present system works. But the problem is that the crash of flight MH17 shows that it doesn't, regardless of how rational and exhaustive your explanations may be. If the system had worked properly, 298 people who are now dead would still be alive. There is no way that anybody can argue around this undeniable fact. It cannot be swept under the carpet. The system failed. We cannot afford that particular system to fail again in the same way. If you really want to find a way of dishonouring the memories of the 298 who died, that would be it.Dave,

"these people are the toughest most highly trained military specialists Australia has."

No, they are police officers who would be quite offended to be referred to as "military specialists". You should show more respect for the important and highly skilled work that they actually do and stop entertaining these ridiculous fantasies.

AFP officers have been deployed overseas before, but always in situations where their role was to maintain public order in a civil setting (ie: keep cilivians who are likely to start a brawl apart, stop civilians from looting shops and houses, control traffic and even providing expertise in rescuing people from under collapsed buildings and that sort of thing). If Australia has felt the need in the past to project force into a war zone, we have always sent troops, with tin hats and guns, not the constabulary.

Abbott knows (or his advisors do) that this is not the sort of situation into which you send armed troops. But he should also know that the AFP have no place in active war zones. A wiser head would still probably feel the need to "do something", but would realise that no viable courses of action are open to them.

Mr Abbott has built his entire political career on simple answers, one-liners, knee-jerk reactions and the lowest forms of populism. He has gotten away with it largely by pandering to our vanity with the eager assistance of the News Limited Corporation. This is probably the first time he has confronted an issue of real historical significance and his inadequacy for the task is becoming more apparent by the day.

John Howard's political longevity was built on the bodies of three thousand victims of the 911 disaster and a couple of hundred partygoers in Bali. Abbott obviously sees similar advantage to be gained from this latest tragedy. Somehow I think that he is kidding himself.Vault,

"How will it help the poor grieving families if AFP personnel end up rotting on the same field Dave?"

Or even worse, what if Bishop gets her way, th eAFP officers are forced against their better judgement to carry weapons, and one is forced to use one? What happens then?

Things can go very badly, very quickly in such situations. Abbott and Bishop would not even know about it until it was too late to fix the damage. 

Just goes to show that people should be more careful with their votes. We are encouraged to believe that our choice of government doesn't really matter and that there is no real difference between the contenders. But voters soon realised how stupid they had been when Japan was approaching our northern shores and Menzies fled to England.

Sometimes who we vote for really matters. Our silliness and gullibility last September is coming back to haunt us. Let's just hope we escape the serious consequences that we probably deserve.Dave,

"Yank and rabithole, show some heart. go and tell that to the families of the dead."

Has it ever occurred to you that the grief of the "families of the dead" may be being used by our pollies and press for their own cynical reasons?

There are two things we can do for the families:

1: We can be honest with them. Don't play them for fools and continually build up expectations that we cannot satisfy. There is a war going on in Ukraine and, when wars happen you cannot expect everything to just keep happening as it normally does. Mr Abbott made a rash promise for political reasons, that he would go to Ukraine and bring the bodies back. He must have known at the time that this may not be possible. He should have shown the families of victims more respect than that.

2: We can do all that we can to ensure that such incidents do not happen again. If you fly an airliner over a war zone and it gets shot down, it doesn't much matter who shot you down. If you hadn't been flying over a war zone NEITHER SIDE could shoot you down. Our air-traffic control systems are supposed to keep us safe. We trust them to ensure that the airliners we ride do not stray into hazards like volcanic dust, severe weather and crossfire from conflicts on the ground. We already know enough to conclude that the tragedy of MH17 could not have happened if it had not been flying over a war zone. That should be enough to prompt action and it is heartening to see that there are the beginnings of action on the international level to address the issue. What a pity that Australia's attention is elsewhere.

Meanwhile, Abbott and Bishop are playing cynical political games with the grief of the families of the dead: pretending to care, but with one eye fixed firmly on the polls. And, in doing so they are placing Australian police officers in harms way for no good purpose and risking Australian personnel becoming involved in an incident that becomes seen by historians as the straw that broke the camel's back and preciptiated the third great European war.

It's not just the families of the dead who deserve better from our leaders - we all do.AJC,

"I have not seen one iota of evidence to support the assertion that Russia sent a BUK system into Ukraine at that time."

Don't worry, you haven't been left out. Nobody else has seen any evidence either.

What is not generally well known is that both Russia and Ukraine (and plenty of other coutnries), use the BUK missile system for air defence. It's a good one - quite popular.

It's not really that surprising that Ukraine and Russia both have BUK missile systems. They also both fly Antonov and Sukhoi planes and much of Ukraine's military hardware has its origins in Russia. In fact, Ukraine is historically a province of Russia and, to most Russians it is considered the heartland of their nation. The Kievar Rus were the first tribe to convert to Orthodox Chrisitianity and the nation's first cathedral was built in Kiev. In Russian, "Ukraine" means "the borderlands".

Ukrainian independence is largely the result of wesern interference in Ukraine's internal affairs and, if history is our guide, is likely to be brief.

But, to get back to your point, does it really matter who fired the missile. Had the plane not been flying in a war zone it could not have been hit regardless of who pulled the trigger. The obvious lesson from this is that we shouldn't fly airliners through war zones.Joe,

"The USA has also provided intelligence satellite data as well which identified the launch site"

Cast your mind back a few years. Remember all the satellite imagery produced by the US to support its claims that Saddam Hussein had vast stockpiles of WMDs ready to rain down on the west? Remember Colon Powell standing up in front of the UN Security Council with a tube of talcum power which he claimed was anthrax spores from the Iraqi weapons program? Remember Adlai Stevenson standing up in front of the UN Security Council with "incontrovertible" evidence to support US action against the people of Cuba - evidence that was later shown to be doctored? Remember the false US testimony about the fictional "Gulf of Tonkin" incident? Vietnam is still getting over that one.

But this time, you appear to be trying to tell us, they are telling the truth.

The US got itself into all sorts of trouble in Iraq and Afghanistan by placing faith in intelligence provided by locals who had a vested interest in the destruction of civil society, the fall of the government, or both. Your posts indicate that you may be being led astray by the same unfortunate syndrome. You are happy to believe that the photos and other "evidence" is genuine because they appear to back up what you already believe. But this is exactly the sort of evidence of which we should be most sceptical. Our natural weakness in this area provides all sorts of con-men and shysters with an easy day's work.

We all have egos. There is nothing wrong with that. But our egos can either protect us from folly, or lead us into it, depending on how we choose to see the world. If you start from the point of being dismissive of the claims of BOTH sides, and look at the "evidence", you will see that neither side of this ridiculous debacle can claim the high ground.

You need to remember that Ukrainians are Russians and some Russians are also Ukrainians. They drive the same tanks, use the same rocket launchers, and look very similar. Simply seeing a photo of Russian military equipment in Ukraine proves nothing because both sides use the same equipment.JoeBloggs,

"it would be worth realising that if all flights over war zones or zones of conflict were diverted away from a war or combat zone it would be near impossible to travel anywhere."

Even if you include ALL of the places you mentioned (most of which would not qualify as "active war zones"), you are looking at less that one percent of the total airspace available.

You see, airlines used to fly airliners through volcanic ash clouds, until a BA airliner's engines stopped working. This incident was closely followed by an incident on a KLM plane in which the engines also stopped working. Luckily nobody dies in these incidents, but it prompted the international air traffic control system to act and it did. Airliners are regularly re-routed around volcanic ash clouds.

Fifty years ago, we did not appreciate the dangers posed by a micro-meteorological event known as a "microburst" (a blast of super-cooled air that literally falls out of a decaying Cumulo-Nimbus cloud). After a few planes either failed to take off or stalled moments before landing during thunderstorms, microsbursts were identified as the cause and just about every major airport in the world is now equipped with Doppler radar, which can detect the sudden wind changes and warn aircraft. Airliners are also regularly re-routed to avoid other meterological hazards like mountain wave rotors.

I suspect that the tardiness of the authorities to act on this particular hazard is the result of the political advantage that can be gained by being the "victim" of one of these accidents. You can guarantee that , had this accident been caused by volcanic ash, Abbott and Bishop would have been happy to have it treated for what it is: a failure in our air safety systems. It is only the political advantage to be gained through the vilification of "culprits" that got them donning the flak jackets and scrabbling for photo opportunities.

There is no place for politics in air safety. The stakes are way too high.SVJ,

" the AFP are not rushing in to force-ably remove any separatists or others "

So what, exactly ARE they doing over there? Are they providing a service that could not be provided as part of the normal air crash investigation routine? What special expertise do they bring that could not be sourced locally?

This is serious. It is not the sort of environment in which people should be runing around making pointless gestures. Wars and dogfights have a lot of similarities. Sensible people steer clear and don't get involved unless they have to. Sometimes a completely innocent or relatively minor incident can set in motion a chain of events so significant that historians give it a name like, for example, World War One. These events are rarely enjoyed by those who live through them. Simply by being there, the AFP are raising the stakes and making it more likely that full-scale, international conflict will break out.

Tories are always obsessed with carving out their "place in history" and most seem to want to be remembered as a "war-time Prime Minister". The only problem with this is that the last time a real war came anywhere near our shores, our Tory Prime Minister fled the country and left Curtin to pick up the pieces.

This is an air safety matter, not a matter for political point-scoring. Abbott has achieved a minor recovery for his plummeting popularity in domestic politics, but this is a temporary and minor pay-off when compared to the inestimable damage that could be done to Australia's interests if things go pear-shaped as a result of Abbott's incompetence.

Abbott is searching for landmines with a pogo stick. He needs to be very, very careful.Dave,

"Have you ever lost a loved one. It hurts."

Once upon a time in India, a young mother was grieving the loss of her baby. Her fellow villagers told her that the Buddha could restore her baby to life. She went to the Buddha and asked him/her to restore her baby to life. The Buddha told her that yes, he/she could restore her baby to life, but first she must go into the village and borrow a cup of mustard seeds from a household that had never experienced loss. She returned at the end of the day with her cup still empty. She thanked the Buddha for showing her that her grief was not unique.

Grief and loss are among the things that unite us as humans because we all feel them. Life is a risk - it is as simple as that. We will lose loved ones and sometimes, despite our best efforts, this will happen in circumstances that we cannot control and under which the normal observances and procedures that are supposed to deliver "closure" are simply not possible. That's life, and it beats the hell out of the alternatives.

You are not doing any favours for grieving people by promising things that you cannot or may not be able to deliver. Our lives are not arranged in neat parcels with clean and distinct beginning and ending points. One experience runs into another, ideas feed off memories and anticipations. In this case, many families have suffered a tragic loss, which will probably be made worse by the impossibility of recovering the bodies in a timely and dignified manner. But it will be made even worse if we keep promising that we can do something that we cannot.

This may be a very bitter pill for many of us to swallow, but Australia is a very small country in a very big world. Sometimes events in that very big world will sweep over us in ways that we do not enjoy very much. That's life - get used to it.Joe,

"Sorry Yank but the Russian Federation forces operating in Ukraine are not 'rebels' nor are they 'a loosely knitted group that is ill disciplined'."

The problem with this argument is that there is simply no credible evidence to suggest that Russian forces are operating inside the Ukraine. We already know that the arms being used by both sides in the conflict come from Russia, and it is fairly safe to assume that Russia is supplying the rebels with tactical and probably intelligence support. So photographs of Russian military equipment in the Ukraine don't really tell us anything that we didn't already know.

I think that you are probably struggling a little with the idea of a conflict in which neither side is right and in which both sides are equally culpable, but such conflicts are surprisingly common. Some may even contend that most or even all wars could be described in these terms (I don't entirely agree with them, by the way).

But, regardless of who is wrong and who is right, it is hard to deny that there is a war going on right now, and it's going on right where MH17 came down. This war is simply the latest outbreak of a much larger and more persistent conflict which will, almost inevitably mire the people of Europe in another bloody and pointless pan-continental conflict. The conditions have existed since the fall of the Soviet Union, the only thing missing has been the trigger.

As a proud Australian, I would hate to see an Australian Prime Minister or Foreign Minster go down in history as the one who provided the trigger.Andie,

"Might I suggest cutting off the fresh meat supply to the Indonesians over night did not go down well."

Actually, it was not the export ban, but the rather strident criticism of their slaughter methods that went down like a lead balloon, and this came from the press, not the government. And it simply reflected the overwhelming opinion of the Australian people, after all. The Indonesians were offended, but the relationship continued to gain strength.

As far as Timor Leste is concerned, the damage was done before the Rudd government was elected. Under the Keating and Hawke governments, steady progress had been made toward an eventual recognition by Indonesia of the result of the 1974 plebiscite which was, at the time, still recognised by the UN as being a legitimate act of self determination by the people of Timor Leste. In countermanding the UN and suggesting a fresh vote, Howard gave great encouragement to the pro-Indonesian militia. A fresh poll meant a real opportunity to overturn the 1974 plebiscite result, and they set to with a vengeance - murdering, raping, burning and looting in a frantic attempt to terrorise the islanders into submission.

The carnage that followed gave Howard the opportunity to strut his stuff as a "wartime PM" and the great saviour of the people of Timor Leste - but his was only saving them from the fire that he had lit with his arrogance and ineptitude. Had he simply continued the work of Hawke and Keating, a lot of lives would have been saved and Timor Leste could have achieved its independence peacefully.HPH,

It's a while since I was in high school, but I seem to remember from my geography lessons that Afghanistan's main exports were apricots and almonds. I suspect that the reason I remember this is that all three start with "a", but that's probably beside the point - which is that opium doesn't start with an "a".

Afghanistan's big problem is that it suffers the infernal curse of "strategic significance". If you want to get stuff from the "Old World" (Europe and the Middle East) to China without involving boats, you have very few choices that don't involve either going through Afghanistan or making a long detour. Of course, if you want to get gas and oil from the Middle East to China, you need a pipeline, and the pipeline will have to go through Afghanistan.

There hasn't been a lot of discussion about the strategic significance of transcontinental pipelines, but if you look at what is happening in the Ukraine at the moment, you can see just how important the warlords of NATO and Russia consider them to be.

None of this is the fault of any Afghan alive or dead. They just happen to be standing between a bunch of western corporations and a big bucket of money called China. It is in the interests of these corporations to ensure that Afghan remains unstable and that Afghans are denied what most nations take for granted - sovereignty. In the meantime, they grow opium because it's a bit hard growing almond and apricot trees in the middle of a war zone, and opium sells well in affluent western markets.

Isn't it wonderful - how the free market works.Patrick,

"Just as Julia Gillard lost the faith of the voting public with her carbon tax "

If you look at the passage of events, one thing is clear. Julia Gillard lost a lot of popularity over her dogged commitment to her election promise to introduce a carbon pricing scheme rather than a carbon tax. She fulfilled her promise in full. There never was a carbon tax, but we did have the first stage of a carbon trading scheme as promised. It is interesting to note, by the way, that the word "tax" is mentioned once in the "Carbon Tax Repeal Bill", and that is in the title.

Exactly how this came to be seen as a "broken" promise is most instructive and should strike fear into the hearts of everyone who values democracy.

The culprit in this case was a relentless propaganda campaign against her which, although eagerly undulged in by Abbott and his rag-tag gaggle of lower primates, was foreign.

There is nothing new about a nation's sovereignty being compromised by foreign capital. After all, Hitler's rise to power was financed predominantly by US and British capital (although there were also sizeable contributions from Swiss and German industrialists like Thyssen and Krupp).

Gillard did what any great leader would do: she stuck to her guns, introduced the carbon pricing scheme and accepted the political consequences. It was, after all, what we had demanded at the previous election.AT,

"And isn't Julie Bishop relishing her role as a UN top banana. The very same UN position the LNP mocked Rudd for pursuing."

Not exactly a "top banana", unless you are basing your judgement entirely on what you see on Australian television or read in our newspapers.

Our foreign minister is still "Julie Who?" to most of the world. MH17 was a fairly major news story around the world for about a day. Since then, it has not really rated a mention except in Holland, Malaysia and Australia. The UN was prepared to indulge MS Bishop in consideration of the loss of Australian lives, but it is highly unlikely that her presence has made any significant difference to what will eventually happen.

That's the strange thing about wars: it is extremely unlikely that the domestic politics of a country not involved in the war will impact siginficantly on its  progress. It is extremely lucky for us that wiser heads in DFAT and probably the ADF prevailed and ensured that the AFP officers currently cooling their heels at a hotel in a city under attack from the government that supposedly agreed to their presence are not armed.

But their very presence is a real worry. Europe is teetering on the brink of war. What happens if (heaven forbid) one of our AFP officers is shot by rebels or by Ukrainian forces? Has anybody thought this through?

Ms Bishop has shown herself to be totally out of her depth on the world stage. Having watched her in parliament accusing (for short term political purposes) Australia's intelligence agencies of indulging in the same sort of terrorist activites used by Mossad, and her total insensitity in dealing with Indonesia, I am not surprised.AT,

"The very same UN position the LNP mocked Rudd for pursuing."

Don't worry, hostility toward the UN has been a fairly constant feature of Tory politics ever since it was set up. Menzies was particularly scathing of the extraordinary work of Dr Evatt in helping to establish the UN. Bishop and Abbott were both scathing of Rudd and Gillard for pursuing a seat on the UN Security Council, but show no embarrassment whatsoever in using that membership for political grandstanding on the domestic stage. And, of course, who can forget the disgraceful language used by Downer, Howard, Abbott and others when the UN was trying its best to stop the US, Australia and the "Coalition of the Willing" (or "Confederacy of Dunces" if you want to be totally accurate) from doing lasting damage to world peace by invading Iraq.

Bishop and Abbott have no time for international law or the UN when questioned on Australia's blatant breaches of the UNHCR Convention, or Israel's campaign of ethnic cleansing in Palestine.

We shouldn't be surprised. After all, Tories are people who think that the law is there to protect THEM from the "bad guys" (ie: anyone who is different from them), without ever considering the fact that it also APPLIES to them. It would be entirely unreasonable of us to expect them to show any respect for international law or cooperation except when they can see a short-term domestic political advantage from it.

It's like all those building sub-contractors who spend all their time slagging off at unions, only to go crying to them and asking them for support when some dodgy builder goes broke and leaves them up the proverbial creek.

Anyone who thought that this would be a "grown up" government must be sadly dissappointed.John,

"Apart from the fact that senior military people have by far the best expertise and background in matters such as this, "

What on earth are you talking about? What special expertise does Angus Huston have in the field of air crash investigation? And that's what this is all about. Whether or not the bodies of victims can be retrieved from the crash site is entirely dependent on factors that are, and will remain, totally outside of anyone's control except those actually fighting the war.

Australia is a leading player when it comes to air safety investigation and we have a number of experts who could have contributed far more to the investigation than a military figurehead can possibly add.

The crash of MH17 was the result of a tragic failure in the system that decides where planes fly and where they don't. It works quite well when the hazard is a volcanic ash cloud, but not so when the hazard is due to warlike activity on the ground under the flight path. We need to fix this before more innocent civilians die. I can think of at least four incidents: the downing of KAL007 by the Soviet Air Force, the downing of an Iranian airliner by USS Vincenses, the downing of an airliner over the Sinai Desert by the Israeli air force and the downing by Ukraine of a Russian airliner in Russian airspace, during military exercises in Ukraine. The death toll in total is over 1000,

The hysterical reaction of Mr Abbott and Ms Bishop threatens to derail the important work of air safety investigators by turning the whole thing into a political sideshow. Our minds should remain fixed on the main game, which is fixing an obviously broken air traffic control system that allows fully laden passenger aircraft to stray into harms way.

I love politics. But there is a time and place for politics. This isn't one of them. Sending a retired military man in place of an expert is a cynical attempt by Abbott to extract political advantage from this tragic failure. Let's just hope he doesn't get too much in the way of the professionals who will conduct the investigation.peter,

"stop the boats. they arent hitting our shores anymore"

Actually, I don't think that anyone was really concerned with boats arriving on our shores. It was the people in the boats that people were worried about and I think that most people assumed that when Mr Abbott promised to "stop the boats", he included their passengers in the promise.

Well, that promise has just been broken. Our navy is, at vast expense, now providing people smugglers with the ultimate service. They no longer have to sail all the way to Austraia. They can just sail half way and wait for the Australian Navy to come and get their passengers for delivery TO THE AUSTRALIAN MAINLAND.

Over the past few months, there has been a seasonal lull in refugee attempts to reach Australia. This happens every year, as it becomes quite dangerous to attempt to approach Australia from the north-west during the storm season. It is likely that activity will resume in the next few months and Mr Abbott will have quite a problem on his hands. After all, the navy does not have an infinite number of ships and personnel, and is not really set up to provide a people-smugging shuttle service from the middle of the Indian Ocean to Curtin Detention Centre.

There has been a reduction in the number of ships attempting to reach Australia, but this was well underway before Mr Abbott was elected and the lull of the past few months can entirely be explained by seasonal factors. In reality, Mr Abbott promised something that had already been delivered.Peter,

"kill the carbon tax."

Mr Abbott has abolished the price on carbon. We never had a carbon tax. Within the next few years, Australia will inevitably re-adopt a carbon pricing and trading scheme because the cost of not doing so will become prohibitive.

The problem with this is that, by that time, the world will have moved on and we will be playing catch-up. This will make things considerably more expensive and, if it happens under a Tory government, there will be no compensation package for anyone except big corporate donors to the Liberal Party.

So, when carbon trading is restored, it will not be painless as it was under the previous government. It will almost certainly impact your back pocket and the level of economic activity. And, worst of all, Australia's businesses will be years behind their overseas competitors by then, where we once had a chance to lead.Paula,

"Leadership requires striking what is usually a precarious balance between reflecting what voters want, and convincing them to accept what the nation needs."

Well, that may be what passes as "leadership" in our failing liberal democracy, but what you describe is simply a feeble imitation of the real thing.

Some politicians (Mr Abbott, Margaret Thatcher and Clive Palmer are good examples) don't even bother with leadership - except as an empty slogan to be wheeled out at election time. This sort of politician is known as a "populist".

Some politicians (Nelson Mandela and Fidel Castro are good examples) are the real laeders, and become almost the embodiment of the hopes, aspirations, dreams and wants of their nation.

Most politicians fall somewhere between the polar extremes of populism and leadership. 

The job of a political leader is sort of like that of a harbour pilot. You get your instructions from the captain in terms of which dock to berth at, but you use your knowledge of the harbour to determine the actual course taken to the destination. And you stick to the course even if the captain tells you to divert in order to give the sailors a better view of the Statue of Liberty (or Opera House, or Colossus of Rhodes....you know what I mean).

Australia has had very few genuine "leaders". Curtin almost certainly made the grade, as did Chifley, Gorton and Whitlam. But in terms of outstanding leadership, I think that four stand out: Bligh, MacQuarie, Keating and Gillard. Of course, the latter two are still too recent to be free of the controversy and chatter of everyday politics, and this tends to obscure the true historical significance of their achievement. But in years to come, they will be recognised as genuine nation-builders.Andie,

"You try to tell ISIS they are not muslims."

We don't have to. The entire Islamic world is telling them that. I doubt that they are listening, but I suppose that they are more likely to listen to the entire Islamic world than they are to you or me.

This problem has been a long time brewing, and is the result of a long chain of disastrous decisions and cynical betrayals by western governments, dating back to before the First World War. And right at the heart of the problem is that the national boundaries and artificial "nations" imposed upon the people of Arabia by western governments make no sense at all. And, besides, a patchwork of petty principalities, police states and theocracies (Islamic and Jewish) was not what the Arabic people wanted in the first place. They rose up against the Turks in the hope of establishing a secular, pan-Arab state, and that is also what they were promised by Allenby and Lawrence (and what Lawrence thought that he was fighting for as well).

In short, its a lot more complicated than you seem to think. I cannot see a solution short of giving the Arab people what they want - their own, united homeland. This would obviously require a lot of work, and may require some sacrifices (Zionist apartheid, for example), but what we have been doing for over a century just isn't working clearly isn't working. We need a new path, and it may as well be an honest one this time.

If you'd like to know more about the roots of the current problem, I cannot think of a better place to start than T.E Lawrence's memoir of the Arab Revolt: "Seven Pillars of Wisdom" - apart from anything else, it's a ripping, "Boy's Own" adventure and well worth a read.James,

"the threat of fascist Islamists "

"Islamic" extremism is dangerous, brutal, irrational, authoritarian, ultra-conservative, right-wing, but it is not fascism and, apart from the above characteristics, it has very little in common with fascism.

According to the only genuine fascist intellectual - Benito Mussolini (the original, not the imitator from Queensland) - fascism is the "ultimate union of corporation and state" so, if you are really worried about fascism, you can forget about Islamic extremism as its source. In fact, it is our reaction to Islamic extremism that poses the greatest danger of initiating a downward spiral into fascism. In this respect, we are definitely our own worst enemies.

What you should really be concerned about is the close relationship and alignment of vested interests and policies between the massive, multi-national corporations that dominate the world economy, and right-wing political parties in western nations ("Liberal" Party in Australia, Conservative Party in the UK, Republicans in the US, Christian Democrats in Germany), and the populist tactics they employ (like whipping up a false panic over "Islamo-fascism").

Remember, cattle stampeding over a cliff THINK that they are fleeing to safety, right up until their feet leave the ground.Sir Bob,
"To imply that Christianity is somehow better than Islam based on the level of violence is absurd. "

Not really that surprising when you think about it.

Judaism, Christianity and Islam are simply sects of a more ancient religion that probably arrived in the Middle East after the overtopping of the Bospherus River flooded the Black Sea basin, inundating the early civilisations of the area and forcing a mass migration into Anatolia, Mesopotamia, Persia the Levant and and Arabia.

The holy book of the Jewsih religion (the Tora) is a collection of writings and genealocical records that portray and glorify a rather brutal and primitive code of morality in which infanticide, fratricide, genocide, incest, rape and terrorism are lauded and their perpetrators venerated as saints and patriarchs.

The holy book of Christianity (the Bible) includes two parts: the Old Testament (an extension of the Tora) and the New Testament (a collection of alleged accounts (none of them by eyewitnesses) of the life of Jesus). Although it includes some what you may call "moral teachings", these are scattered rather sparsely through the text.

The holy book of Islam (the Koran, or Q'ran) is, unlike the Bible or the Tora, a consistent work dealing with moral philosophy, written by a single author.

The central theme of the Tora is the special status of the Hebrew people and the inferiority and threat posed by all other human beings.

The central theme of the Old Testament is simply an extension of this theme, with some very distrubing and stomach-churning accounts of the sort of treatment the ancient Hebrews meted out to non-Hebrews in God's name. The central theme of the New Testament is the life and divine nature of Jesus.

The central theme of the Koran is submission to the will of God. Of the three texts, it is the only one to recognise and acknowledge the other two "Semitic" religions and their followers, who are referred to as "people of the Book". And it is the only one of the three texts that urges the reader to be tolerant of "infidels" (people who do not follow your faith) and to leave their judgement to God.

The Koran was the last written of the three, and this is reflected both in the level of sophistication of language used and the more modern and relevant moral teachings it contains. And it is not surprising that this is reflected in the three religions as well, with Islam being clearly the most advanced and sophisticated, as well as the more applicable to the world in which we live.steve,

"Actually, what got Iraq to where it is has to be sheeted home to the African pulling out troops early."

Now you are just being silly.

What got Iraq where it is goes right back to the very early 20th Century when the British were building a new class of battleship known as the "Dreadnought" Class. At the time, Winston Churchill was responsible for that sort of thing, and his pathological hatred and fear of British working people, and coal miners in particular, led him to specify that the new "Dreadnoughts" would be fuelled by oil (of which Britain had none) rather than coal (of which Britain had heaps).

Suddenly the Arabian Peninsula and Mesopotamia were struck by the curse of "strategic significance", and with the rapid consumerisation of the automobile post WW1, the die was cast. The rise of oil corporations from corrupt local cadres to all-powerful global behemoths sort of sealed the deal. Conflict in the Middle East is in the interests of the global oil corporations and the global arms and "battlefield logistics" corporations, and western governments have little choice but to dance to their tune.

The question of producing a workable and just answer to the rightful aspirations of the Arab people for a secular, pan-Arab state has been allowed to fester for so long that it has been corrupted by "Islamic" extremism, and this process has been greatly facilitated by the duplicity of the west and the undermining and eventual elimination of the great secular leaders of Arab nationalism - Nasser, Arafat, Gadhafi, etc by western intelligence services. And. of course, "Islamic" extremism and its terrorist tactics had its modern in Afghanistan and Pakistan, and is the product of attempts by the CIA and ISA (the Pakistani Stasi) to destabilise the Soviet-friendly government of Afghanistan.

This is a problem of our own making, and it's no good looking under beds for bogey men.

It's been a long time in the making, and it will not be fixed overnight.From Australia,

"They show us photos and say stuff"

Yes, isn't it odd. Show a Tory millions of pages of scientific evidence pointiing to a serious problem in our atmosphere caused by industrial emissions of CO2 over the past 300 years and they say "show us the proof".

Show the same person twenty-odd pixels arranged on a page in a way that is consistent with it being a picture of a seven year old boy carrying a human head (but equally consistent with an infinite number of alternative interpretations), and they swallow it as proof positive that a seven year old boy was carrying the severed head of a human being in Iraq.

I am sorry, but that is NOT what the image shows. The image shows twenty-odd pixels on a piece of paper. That's all it shows. Mr Abbott and Mr Murdoch have chosen to interpret it in a particular way. But I am a "sceptic" when it comes to "evidence" produced to justify the withdrawal or denial of my fundamental rights as a human being.Mick,

"Not have a plan, like our government has?"

I love plans. Plans are cool. But, when someone keeps telling me that they have a plan, but clams up when you ask them what the plan is, I get more than a bit suspicious. Generally, it means that either there is no plan at all, or that the plan is so terrible that it is best to keep it under wraps until it is too late for anyone to do anything about it.

Unfortunately, I fear that Mr Abbott's plan is pretty much the same plan that every populist in history has ever had: create a perception of crisis (or emergency), conjure up a dark and mysterious threat (socialism, world government, alien abductions, terrorism, decadence, brainwashing, brown noise), find an ill-understood minority to blame for it (socialists, Jewish bankers, Gypsies, Catholics, Protestants, black people, white people, albinos, natural healers, homosexuals, atheists, scientists, freemasons, its a matter of horses for course), and then you tell everyone that you "have a plan", but that you can't them what it is, and there is no alternative but to take away their rights.

The "threat" that Mr Abbott has conjured up in this instance is rather transparent. He claims that we are under imminent threat from "radicalised" young Australians who have answered the call to leave Australia (permanently) to fight for, and to live and work in the caliphate. This is a very different situation to the situation we faced when Bin Laden was calling on Moslems to fight and commit acts of terrorism in western countries.

As I said above, I think that plans are a wonderful thing. But the plan must be predicated on circumstances that are likely to arise, and it must have a realistic chance of achieving the stated purpose. If you cannot achieve these two things, your plan is likely to be more of a hindrance than a help. In such cases, you are probably better off maintaining your spontaneity and adapting your tactics as the situation develops.

Unfortunately, this requires an ability to think on one's feet. Mr Abbott has not really revealed much of an ability in this department so far, which is probably why he is pretending to have a plan.peter,

"Marilyn the plan is to prevent these terrorist from entering Australia"

So far, none of these "terrorists" have not shown the slightest inclination to return to Australia and, from what we have seen so far, it seems unlikely that they would.

ISIL has been appealing for fighters, but it has also been appealing for doctors, lawyers, engineers, police and other professions to go to the caliphate and help establish a civil society. Its intentions are pretty clear, it aims to establish a pseudo-Islamic caliphate spanning Mesopotamia, Syria and the Levant, and has shown no interest in attacking western nations from within.

Now, to your description of ISIL fighters as "terrorists". This is inaccurate and silly. Terrorism is a very real problem and it does not serve anyone's best interests to trivialise it or devalue it by using it as a general pejorative term for people we don't like. From what we have seen, ISIL appears to be quite barbaric in its methods, but its military actions so far have been what you would call "conventional" battlefield war-fighting rather than the more irregular "terrorist" tactics.

Terrorism is not the only way in which political violence can impact on our lives. It is a particular type of violence, and a particularly repugnant one at that but, in Australia you are more likely to die from violence inflicted by a friend or family member that you are to be killed by terrorism.

It is important to keep these things in perspective.stupendus,

"But if everything is open then someone wearing a mask will stand out."

Good point. Unless you are confident that you can completely and comprehensively cover your tracks, any attempt to do so will simply look suspicious. There can be no half measures. You either get it right, or you don't.

But jeremy is kidding himself anyway. All he has to ask himslef is whether or not he gets a bill for his internet connection. How do they figure out how much he owes if his metadata is "maksed"? Yes, that's right, they get this info from jeremy's "masked" metadata.

I remember an episode of The Goons in which they are attempting to steal Napoleon's piano from the Louvre and sail it home across the Channel. They are laying in wait, cunningly concealed, for the museum to close. The guard walks through, shouts "The museum is closing - everybody out!" and then adds "and that includes the two English idiots hiding behind the glass door".

You are never so obviouse as when you think that you are invisible.DT,

"if there were surveillance cameras placed at each of the entrances to your house, and every other building, so we could tell who was where and when, but not what they did inside"

Not a bad analogy. But, just as information on who visited whom, how long they stayed, where they went afterwards and so on, can be used to deduce much of what has happened out of view of the cameras, information on which sites you visited, what you looked at, how long you were there, how often you were there, where you went after visiting the site and so on, can be used to deduce an awful lot of information on you, like (believe it or not) whether you are married, whether you are in a relationship, whether you are having an affair, who you work for, what level of responsibility you have, when you are at home, when you house is unoccupied, whether you have pets and what type they are, what sort of car you drive, where you drive it to and so on. Now, none of this information is actually recorded in the metadata, but the metadata can be forensically analysed and from this analysis, a surprising level of detail can be derived about your personal life.

This sort of level of detail is none of anyone's business and the mere fact that it can be used in this way means that it WILL be used in this way.i think i think,

"if the government offer the option to opt out of the collection"

More thinking required, I am afraid.

Do you honestly believe that, if you opted out of a data retention system like this that the government would simply accept this? Or is it more likely to suggest to them that you are worth close monitoring? After all, why would anyone opt out unless they had something to hide? (Wow, three question marks in one paragraph!).

I had a friend once, who was a compulsive shoplifter - couldn't help himself. And he was good at it. But he never tried to hide the fact tht he was shoplifting. He would walk into a shop, pick something up and walk out with it as though he was perfectly entitled to do so and he was never questioned. But I have seen quite a few hapless youths, who have not stolen anything, but put so much effort into not being detected doing stuff that they weren't doing anyway that all they achieve is a highly suspicious appearance, which almost invariably led to them being detained for a bag search on leaving the store.

Have you ever herd the expression "hining in plain view"? It makes a lot of sense if you want to avoid scrutiny. Attempting to hide is a good way of drawing attention to yourself. Saying that you don't want to be monitored is a good way to convince them that maybe you SHOULD be monitored.Tiger Tim,

"Obvious ones are Google, any shopping portal, Facebook, etc."

I am afraid that you are comparing elephants with autogyros.

Lots of sites collect metadata. They collect it for all sorts of reasons, but the major one is personalisation. But the only information that these sites can glean from the metadata they collect concerns your interactions with that particular site. They cannot know what sites you visited before you visited their site, nor can they tell which sites you visited afterwards. All they can tell is what you did while you were at their site.

Now, if you have been silly enough to supply a real address when registering, you may start to receive more junk mail than usual, and you should probably also adjust your PC's spam filters. But, apart from this sort of stuff (which is annoying but that's all), you have done no great damage to your quality of life.

Metadata concerning your web browsing habits - which sites you visited, how often you visited them, how long you visited them for, which related sites you subsequenlty visited and so on, is only held in one place and that is on the servers of your ISP. This information is really useful stuff for cyber-criminals and intelligence services (spot the difference if you can - I can't) because it allows them to construct a very clear picture of who you are, what you do, who your loved ones are and so on. At the moment, the raw information is only held for billing purposes and is probably purged from ISP systems as soon as the relevant information has been extracted and entered into the billing system. This not only reduces running costs (data storage has dropped in price but is still bloody expensive) but it is sound security poklicy as well. You see, ISP's have a "need to know" how much of their service you have used for billing purposes, and they have a "need to hold" the information until it is entered into the billing system. But they have no "need to keep" once this has happened. When you start keeping things for which a clear "need to keep" cannot be demonstrated, you are compromising your security standards and greatly increasing the risk of a breach.

I suspect that you really should have taken more time to learn how these things work before commenting.Paul01,

"until a more compliant senate is sorted out."

That could be a futile exercise. The Senate is likely to remain exactly as it is until 1 July 2017. A general election will need to be called sometime late in 2016 and, by convention, this is accompanied by a half-Senate election. The only possible exception for this is if Abbott decides to emulate Malcolm Fraser's treachery by filling casual Senate vacancies with compliant nominees rather than replacing a retiring Senator with a nominee from that Senator's party. This could present some interesting questions if it happens to be one of the independent or micro-party senators being replaced.

Of course, all of this would create a horrible mess, demonstrations on the streets, social dislocation, divided communities....in other words, it would deliver exactly what Mr Abbott is trying to achieve. Such a scenario cannot be ruled out.RayS,

"Another one was Ian MacDonald, squawking about a gas shortage in NSW if we didn't start fracking all over with urgency."

This is a bit tricky. You see, NSW DOES face a gas shortage. But it is a shortage that could easily have been averted if, way back in 1975, the Australian people had shown more backbone and had not submitted to Fraser's Coup d'etat.

Just about everybody remembers The Dismissal, but almost nobody remembers the issue over which the Senate refused to pass supply. You see, there was a bloke - a bit of a visionary - called Rex Connor, and he devised a plan to build a grid of pipelines around Australia so that Australian businesses and households could benefit from the vast supplies of natural gas that had just been discovered off WA's coast. He was well aware the the east coast already had adequate supplies from the Cooper Basin and Bass Strait, but he was also aware that these supplies were limited and would start to run out in about 30 years' time. And he was also looking at the huge bonanza for our manufacturing industries (which Whitlam had started to rebuild after 23 years of decline under Menzies) and the unprecedented competitive advantage they would derive from having access to a cheap and reliable source of energy.

But the pipeline network would have cost money (I think that it was around the four billion mark, but I might be exaggerating somewhat) and that money would have to be borrowed. And this was the trigger for the Tories in the Senate to block supply.

Politics is all about vision - long -term vision, and planning - long term planning. Rex Connor had a vision that, if it had come to fruition, would have produced a very different Australia - one that relied more heavily on the skills of its people than the price of its dirt. We would not currently be mourning the death of manufacturing in Australia because by this time our manufacturing sector would have the strength and resilience to withstand assault, even from a government and malicious and anti-Australian as the current one.

We missed an opportunity. MacDonnald was lying when he said that the gas shortage justified the destructive and wasteful practice of hydraulic fracturing to extract gas from coal seams. It does not. There are other, more efficient (but not as profitable) ways of extracting natural gas from coal seams, but these have been ignored because the energy corporations are more interested in short-term profit than long-term sustainability.RC,

"Am I the only one that finds it odd that when the members of the LNP are directly or indirectly involved they "abhor racism, their privacy exposed, and their data retained", yet, when it does not embarrass them they are determined to allow racism (including religious bigotry) a free hand"

Probably not. You are proably not alone in being surprised when the Tories show their true colours, but there are also quite a few of us who no longer expect the Tories to act honourably. It saves time - you don't have to wait to be dissappointed, you can just get on with things in the sure knowledge that, if a Tory is involved, there is something fishy going on.

The probelm is that most of us take responsibility for our actions, consider ourselves no better, worse of more deserving than our fellow human beings, and follow principles that do not change on a minute-to-minute basis according to what suits us at the time. This frequently makes the actions, statements and behaviour of Tories appear incomprehensible. It is not the sort of behaviour that one would expect from a responsible adult.

From the point of view of the true Tory, the purpose of the law is to protect THEM from "bad people" (strangers, people who are not like us), and it usually comes as a huge shock when it is pointed out to them that the law actually APPLIES to them as well and that they are expected to obey it just like the "bad people". When you make an agreement with a Tory, you should accept the fact that the agreement will only be honoured if honouring the agreement provides them with some advantage or, at the very least, does not damage their interests. The idea of sticking by an agreement because that was the agreement you made, is entirely foreign to them and it is therefore unreaslistic to expect a Tory to keep a promise (you may have noticed this since the election).

Once you realise these simple facts, the bizarre behaviour of Tories becomes comprehensible. It all becomes so much easier when you realise that Tories cannot be expected to act like normal, well-adjusted adults. All you have to remember is to view them as very tall, very loud two-year-olds.

If you follow my advice, I can guarantee that Tories will only dissappoint you occasionally, rather than continuously.scupundi,

"I take it then you support Bob Days proposal to reintroduce the bill to repeal 18c?"

Exactly how does this relate to the topic at hand....let's see.....oh that's it - freedom of speech is something supported by liberals and other progressive thinkers. So is privacy. Therefore, if someone expresses concerns over invasions of privacy, they must be a "lefty", and must therefore also support free speech.

The problem is that there is a hole in your argument that I could drive a bus through (and yes, I am a qualified bus driver). You see, supporting anti-vilification laws like the Racial Discrimination Act is entirely consistent with the principles of free speech. There is no contradiction. In fact, sections 18c and 18d of the Act are the strongest possible protection of the principle of free speech. But to understand this, you must first unsderstand exactly what the principle of free speech actually is.

Freedom of speech is derived from two of the three fundamental and inalienable human rights: the right to Liberty and the right to the Prusuit of Happiness. It guarantees that any citizen should be free to state their HONESTLY HELD OPINION on any matter of PUBLIC INTEREST without FEAR OF RETRIBUTION or EXPECTATION OF REWARD. It does not give anyone open slather to say what they want when they want on any subject.

There is nothing in 18C that would in any way interfere with a citizen's right to freedom of speech and, in a case of false accusation, 18D provides a number of defences that virtually eliminate the possibility of an innocent comment attracting a conviction.

In providing effective protection against the type of malicious vilification outlawed by the Act, 18C and 18D protect free speech by ensuring that ALL can speak freely without fearing that this will attract a stream of racial vilification. 18C and 18D represent the strongest possible protection for the Freedom of Speech that any law can possibly provide.Bev,

"18C,D is badly written as it allows the judge to define what is offensive not the reasonable man."

Thanks. I needed a good giggle.

One of the tools available to a judge in his or her deliberations is known as the "reasonable person test". This is particularly useful in situations where a judge may have to decide on something that may have an element of subjectivity, such as what is offensive. Here's how it works:

Lets say that a person decides to do a little nude sunbathing in their backyard. A person down the street has a bee in their bonnet about nudity, and climbs a tree to check if any of his neighbours is sunbathing naked. He is horrified to see the person sunbathing naked and reports the matter to the police.

A second person decides to do a little nude sunbathing, but chooses to do so on the slippery-dip at the local playground.

Both are charged with offensive behaviour. Both did the same thing, but only one is in any real danger of conviction. You see, a reasonable person would probably not bother to climb a tree in order to see a naked person and, if they did, would not be offended by seeing one.

But, even if you are judged to have offended someone, you still have a defence. That is what 18D is all about. 18D outlines the types of things that excuse the offense. For example, if you can demonstrate that saying or publishing what you said or published served the public interest, and was sustantially true, or could be considered fair comment in the context of a debate, then you have no case to answer.

The only way in which you can fall foul of 18C is if you do not have a defence under 18D and the only reason that you would not have a valid defence under 18D is if you deliberately set out to intimidate, vilify insult or harrass someone purely because they are a member of a particular racial or ethnic group (which is what brought Bolt unstuck). And that is, after all, what the act is designed to prevent.bruce,

"if information can be abused, it will be."

Makes sense. After all, information is one of the most important sources of power. The more you know about someone, the easier it becomes to control, intimidate and oppress them.

Some people have short memories, and some were born to late to experience the routine and organised abuse of power and deprivation of basic rights by Tory governments and their police forces through the 1950's, 60's and 70's. It was largely the reforms of Whitlam and Wran that stopped the rot but, if recent revelations in ICAC are correct, it appears to be gaining a second wind under the corrupt administration of Abbott, Baird, Newman and Barnett.

Oh, and by the way, it has now been admitted by the government that the proposed powers for force ISP's to hold vast quantities of data is not designed to reduce the risk of terrorist attacks against Austraians, but rather to make it easier to catch the perpetrators AFTER the event.gbe,

"I don''t care what information anyone collects on me "

So, you don't mind organised criminals knowing the names of your children, which schools they attend, how they get to and from school, which sporting teams they belong to.

Now, this information may not actually be recorded directly in the metadata, but that does not mean that the metadata that is retained does not contain enough clues to allow a skilled analyst to deduce it.

Skilled analysts can earn a lot of money legitimately, or HEAPS of money through working with organised crime, or for a foreign intelligence service with malign intent. I would imagine that most are real professionals who appreciate that the level of access to personal information that comes as a result of their skills is a privilege that should not be abused. But it doesn't take many to go off the rails in order to create an enormous security risk.

It is amazing how often people who believe that they "have nothing to hide" are the first to be rounded up or become victims of fraud. Often, it is your own arrogance in believing that you "have nothing to hide" that is your undoing.

You seem like a nice chap. I'd hate to see you suffer the consequences of your misplaced faith in the benign nature of authority. Please be at least a little bit careful with your personal data....please.the yank,

"Is there any party out there that gives a crap about privacy?"

Yes, clearly so.

As a matter of fact, ALL of the majors care greatly about privacy - the Tories go to desperate lengths to keep the workings of the government and its deeds private from the electorate. And Labor considered AND REJECTED data retention policies similar to, but less invasive to those being proposed by the Tories.

Tories care about the privacy of their party and, when in government, what they are doing in our names. The Labor party has demonstrated its commitment to privacy through legislation to protect our privacy AND by rejecting the proposals now being championed by the government.rattan,

"don't sign up for a club card and pay in cash"

Or even better, don't shop at the chains that offer club cards, reward cards and the like. Coles and Woolies are not the only supermarkets around, and they are pretty boring places to shop unless you are really into groceries.

If you shop at a place that offers reward cards and special discounts on petrol, insurance and such, you have to wonder who actually pays for all these goodies. The answer is quite simple - the people who shop there but who do not have the reward cards.

If you shop at a place that doesn't offer reward cards, at least you know that you are not paying for gifts to total strangers.oaktree,

"Hi John, you will be happy to pay more as a consumer when the cost of data storage is passed on, I take it."

And of course, he will also be delighted with cyber-criminals access the vast store of personal information stored in the metadata collected by ISPs and which they are forced to hold, and extract enough information to "clone" his identity, access his bank accounts and use his PC to launch cyber-attacks on businesses or to access sites on ASIO's watch list.

John seems to be under the false impression that the only people who could access his metadata would be authorised officers of the Commonwealth. He should think again. If it is stored electronically it is accessible from anywhere in the world, to anyone with more than a basic level of knowledge of computer security systems. The idea that this, or any, information stored electronically can be 100% secure is a fantasy. When I am designing an application I always take great care to make it as secure as possible, but I accept that it is impossible to make the information 100% secure without making it 100% inaccessible. And I do my best to understand that my customers understand this.

If anyone tells you that your data is 100% safe, they are either lying through their teeth, or simply don't know what they are talking about.John,

"What are you scared of? 99.9% of Australians have nothing interesting to hide from security services."

I'll tell you a little story - a true one - autobiographical in fact.

When I was a kid, my best friend's father was a very talented violinist and conductor. In his capacity as the concert master of a major symphony orchestra, he travelled the world and met with officials from various orchestras and such, including a number of people associated with orchestras inthe Soviet Union. He was also a rather passionate "peacenik" and this apparently led him to sign a petition that called for the withdrawal of Australian troops from Vietnam.

He was not a communist. He was not a terrorist. He was a passionately loyal Australian. But he did not share the views of the government at the time and his minor contribution to the peace movement (one signature) drew the attention of ASIO which, at the time, was being used as a political tool by the Tory government to intimidate its opponents and discourage people from even thinking about issues that were uncomfortable for the government.

For a couple of years, every time I went to visit my mate there was a blotter-green Morris walkthrough van parked outside the house with two men in suits, hats and dark glasses inside. My mate's father's health started to decline. He quite rightly felt persecuted. He could not go anywhere without being followed. He became so ill that he could not work. He died. Still the ASIO goons sat outside the house. They pulled mail out of the letterbox and opened it then, finding that all it contained was a sympathy card, shoved it unceremoniously back into the letter box.

So I can tell you exactly what I'm scared of, John: I am scared of the same thing happening to another innocent Australian citizen. THAT's what I'm scared of - and if you aren't, perhaps you should check your pulse to make sure that you still have one.Gremland,

"Data retention breaches two basic rights:

Respect for privacy and family life;
Right for protection of personal data."

Sorry, but I am going to have to be a bit pedantic here, because our rights is a subject that is so poorly understood by the general population that everybody's rights are constantly under threat.

There are three fundamental or "basic" rights that are held to be inalienable: The Right to Life, The RIght to Liberty, and the RIght to the Pursuit of Happiness. Now, when I say that these rights are "inalienable" I do not mean that taking them away is impossible, but simply that they cannot be denied with justice.

Many of the rights that we take to be "basic" or fundamental are, in fact, derived from the three fundamental rights. Things like "freedom of the press", "freedom of speech", "freedom of association" are derived rather than being fundamental. In some cases these rights CAN be denied with justice, but this is usually only the case when they conflict in some way with the three fundamental and inalineable rights.

We don't get taught much about our rights in school and this is a shame. As a result, we tend to assemble an understanding of our rights from popular culture and snippets of things that we may have heard, and this frequently leads us to expect rights that we don't actually have to be respected, while being blissfully unaware of the fundamental and inalienable rights that we all have by virtue of being born a member of the human race.

A good understanding of our rights is important because it is the ONLY possible defence against their withdrawal or erosion by government or any other entity. The lack of understanding and appreciation of our fundamental rights and their critical importance to civil society, is a far greater threat to "our way of life" than all the terrorists in the world combined.

Oh, by the way, I substantially agree with what you said. Data retention IS an invasion of both the Right to Liberty and the Right to the Pursuit of Happiness. As such it is a breach of two inalienable rights and is therefore incompatible with the principles of the liberal-democratic society we all claim to value so highly.Dok,

"Yeah, I think I trust my government less then I trust some vague threat from the east"

What?

OK, I suppose that any threat posed by New Zealand and Tonga would have to be "vague".

We need geese! Geese are brilliant watch-birds, and they can be trained to honk when they hear the sound of jandals flapping up the beach. Sydney would be saved by the pastrycooks of Bondi, who would hear the geese, raise the alarm and save us from the Sirusuns.

Perhaps you are thinking of a bit further east than that, like to our west. And why is it that "the east" has always been seen as dark and threatening, when this is where the sun comes from? Even Tolkein put the bad guys in the east.

But what you said about trust has weight. We SHOULD be able to trust our government, but we can't, because we elected a government that does not even pretend to represent our best interests.

The stupid thing is that when we did have a governemnt we COULD trust, we chose to believe a foreign plutocrat with a vested interest in regime change instead, which is how we got ourselves a government that we can't trust.

In so many ways, we are our own worst enemy.Edward,

"Now everything is linked together... a hacker's wet dream"

As far as I am concerned, this is the biggest danger of all.

I work in IT, and have done so for about 30 years. I've administered networks, written aglorithms for mainframe systems, developed PC and web applications, worked as a systems anaylist and in data assurance and security. I am sick and tired of being told by people that their systems are secure, and occasionally get so frustrated that I actually demonstrate to customers exactly how long it takes to get around all of their firewalls, malware filters and such, and gain complete administrative control over their networks.

Now, I am the first to admit that digital technology is a huge opportunity for humanity, but I concerns me that its development and implementation has been driven by corporate and commercial interests and priorities rather than the actual needs and wants of human beings. Governments and businesses increasingly want us to conduct our business online because it is cheaper and more convenient for them, but I personally do not believe that we have the necessary technologies in place yet. that can ensure that they can keep our data safe.

Perhaps we need to pull back a little - take the foot off the accelerator, and go through a "consolidation" phase in which we review what we have achieved so far in digitising our society, identify problems and potential threats, and re-align development to addressing these problems and threats, and to ensuring that future development is directed toward satisfying, rather than creating, human needs and wants.

I am very concerned that, by placing to much faith in the private sector, we hare missing a truly historic opportunity to liberate humanity from the drudgery of repetitive and menial work, to massively boost leisure time and to revolutionise the ways in which we use the world's scant and diminishing non-renewable resources. It is time the we, through our elected governments, took back control of the direction of technological development. If we continue to blindly follow the private sector, we are headed for a cliff.yank,

"While I fear Islamic radicals at present more then Jewish ones "

As long as they are "radical" you don't need to fear them at all. Its the extremists you have to worry about.

Radicals are simply people who examine a problem from its cause to its resolution and who do so in a rational way. The word comes from the Greek "radix", which means "root". The idea is quite simple - if you want to fix a problem, first find and then fix what is causing it.

The word "radical" has become associated with extreme political views because often a "radical" examination of a society will identify problems that can only be resolved through major, even revolutionary change. For this reason, those who benefit from the maintenance of the status quo, will classify radicals as dangerous extremists (or even "terrorists").

There are radicals and extremists among Arabs, among Jews, among Australians, among Mexicans, among whoever or whatever group you are talking about. But you can almost guarantee that it won't be the radicals on either side who will be hurling the bombs.yank,

"You are being pedantic. "

For good reason. We have different words for different things because, if we only had one word for everything there would be no point in language.

What you are talking about is extremism, which has nothing to do with radicalism. Radicalism is a METHOD, extremism is a RESPONSE.

Extremists do not usually arrive at their ideas through the use of radical methodology. In most cases, it is the opposite (reductionist or authority-based methodologies) that leads an individual to an extremist stance.

Where things get confusing is that whichever social class has the power to direct the economy and to benefit from deficiencies and inefficiencies in the economy also wields a thing called "hegemony". This is basically the power to "set the agenda" of popular culture and political debate. And those who benefit from the inefficiencies in an economy have a vested interest in ensuring that the inefficiencies are maintained.

So, when somebody arrives at the conclusion through radical thought processes that their is a better, more efficient way of organising economic relations (which usually involves significant or even revolutionary change), such ideas are portrayed as being "extreme" by those who benefit from the status quo.

It is very important not to be sloppy with our language. Radicalism is the foundation of our technology, our science and all rational philosophy. While the ruling class will always attempt to portray new and challenging ideas arrived at through radical thought as "extremism", we should not fall into their trap. In most cases, extremism springs from a failure to apply sufficiently radical and exhaustive analytical processes, and a reliance on authority-based ideology, and this is where the real danger lies.
yank,

"if they believe in killing someone for a cause they are dangerous"

So, you would be against letting ANYONE who fought in ANY war back into Australia? Our world and society is still a long way from being perfect. This means that we still have armed conflict. Sometimes both sides are in the wrong, and sometimes one side has a just cause.

When we have armed conflict, people get killed. It would be nice if we could all just decide not to have armed conflict anymore, but this is rather unreaslistic considering that there are still major issues that need to be resolved and powerful forces with vested interests in the status quo, who will oppose any moves to resolve these issues with justice.

There probably are people who actually believe that killing is a good thing, but I have never met one. In most cases it is a matter of rationalising the act by setting it against a wider context and, in most cases this judgement is mistaken. But it cannot be denied that, in some cases, people are killed by armed conflict that is entirely just.

Conservative, authority-based thinking ensures that progressive reform of our society will always be opposed, and this will sometimes lead to conflict. The important thing in such cases is to ensure, by employing a rational and radical methodology, that the cause IS just, and the means ARE justified by the ends.

Sloppy language is a big part of the problem. Sloppy language leads to sloppy thinking. It makes pulling the wool over the eyes of the populace a piece of cake. If you can kill a good idea, arrived at by radical thought processes, simply by labelling it "extreme", you wield an awful lot of power - the power to convince people that blowing themselves up in a crowded nightclub is a good idea. I suggest that it is NOT a good idea to give ANYONE that power simply through laziness.Paul,

"'One man's terrorist is another man's freedom fighter"

And sometimes one man's terrorist is one man's freedom fighter - at the same time.

Back in the last century, Afghanistan was a place that we rarely heard of. They pretty much got on with their own affairs. They had a democratic government of sorts, they grew almonds and apricots, and lived in a harsh but stunningly beautiful place in relatrive peace and harmony.

But the big problem was that they were very, very friendly with their neighbours - the Soviet Union, and this made them a part of an "evil empire" that the president of the United States (Ronald Reagan) had vowerd to destroy.

So he ordered his intelligence agencies to cooperate with ISI (the Pakistani Stasi) in establishing groups of religious fundamentalists, filling their heads with Wahabist nonsense (supplied by those good friends of the US - the Saudis) and turning them back on their own people. These extreme quasi-Islamic bands of butchers were at first described by Reagan as "Holy Freedom Fighters" and, when it was clear that this rabble needed a leader, it is not surprising that Mr Reagan chose the son of a Saudi family who sat on the same corporate boards as Reagan and his associates (the Bin Ladens).

The rest is history. The "Holy Freedom Fighters" became known to the world as Al Qaeda and their leader, and former best friend of the USA, was Osama Bin Laden.

Bin Laden was a "Holy Freedom Fighter" while his goons were killing Russians and Afghans, but he soon became a "terrorist" when his targets carried US passports.aGuy,

"The difference is quite simple. Is the new group a threat to your way of life. "

I am sure that if you had really tried, you could have come up with a slightly sillier statement, but you were probably right not to persist. What you have come up with is sufficiently daft to suit anyone.

The obvious question is "whose way of life". You see the problem is that "ways of life" have a way of colliding, and that is how armed conflict occurs. In almost every case, terrorists see themselves as being in the right, and as defenders of a particular "way of life". In such cases, they see their terrorist acts as legitimate acts against a clear and present threat to that "way of life".

Armed conflict is almost always the result of two groups of people both seeing the other as a threat to their way of life.

See the problem. It is a bit like a puppy when he or she first sees its own image in a mirror. It's just that in this case, there ARE two sides to the mirror, but both are barking at their own reflection.Applaudanum,

"That suggests a reversal of the 'burden of proof', Bruc3. 

It's notoriously difficult to prove that you didn't do something when you were in the vicinity if that 'something'."

I can understand your incredulity. Usually, all we have to do to sataisfy anyone that the government is not going to follow a particular course of action is to show how such a course of action would violate some basic principle upon which our way of life is based - eg: the presumption of innocence. Unfortunately, when you have a Tory government with a thumping majority, a compliant press and an air of panic (created by teh government and compliant media), such things cannot be taken for granted.

Bruc3 was, I think, parodying the proposed law that will require ARABIC Australians to prove that they haven't participated in a foreign conflict, while allowing Australians of Jewish heritage to fight and possibly commit atrocities in a foreing conflict on behalf of the state of Israel.

I think that his (or her) point was that the law should apply equally to all, with no exceptions or special treatment. That's the idea of the blindfold on the statue with the scales - you know: "blind justice" applying to all regardless of who you are?Mark,

"the ONLY defense force I would serve in is the ADF.. why because I'm AUSTRALIAN"

Well said. Although if you were a member of the ADF, you may be required to serve with a foreign (allied) force as part of your training, or to act as liaison in a joint mission or exercise.

And there have, occasionally, been times in the past when ordinary Australian citizens HAVE legitmately and honourably served in foreign conflicts under foreign banners, The most obvious example of this were the thousands of Australian workers who travelled to Spain in the 1930's to fight alongside their Spanish comrades against Franco's fascists. Had the Australian and other western governments supported them, Hitler could have been stopped in his tracks. But, in those days, the fascists were still the good guys in the eyes of the Tories.Ben,

"Why would they? They are no threat to us or our way of life."

But they ARE breaking the law. If you are an Australian citizen, you are not allowed to travel overseas to fight for a foreign force in a foreign war. The law applies to everyone, regardless of what you think of them or what they believe in.  I am a little bit surprised that, as a "lawyer", you seem to be unaware of this rather fundamental concept.

The law regarding the participation of Australian nationals in foreign conflicts does not consider the nature of the conflict or the nationality of the opposing sides. It simply says that you are not allowed to do it.

I don't think that I am alone in being increasingly frustrated with the double standard implicit in the international community's dealings with Israel and its unwitting and unwilling neighbours. Frequent breaches by Israel of international law regarding their occupation of Palestinian land and acts of violence against the civilian population and civilian infrastructure of Palestine, Lebanon, Syria, Iraq and Iran provoke no more than stern mutterings from the Security Council (thanks to the US veto), while binding resolutions of the General Assembly are ignored.

There is no doubt that Europe's Jews suffered from unspeakable persecution, first from the Catholic and Orthodox Churches and then from the Nazis. There is absolutely no way in which we could have possibly ever compenstated them for the treatment they received and the ridiculous method that we chose (evicting an entire nation of people from their traditional lands and imposing a theocratic state populated by Europeans on them) was never going to work, and has simply destabilised the entire region, as well as turning an entire nation of innocent people into stateless refugees.

The international community was too slow to recognise the threat posed by fascism in the 1920's and, as a result of that appalling failure. 6 million Jews and 180 million Gentiles died. The international community took decades to finally decide that Apartheid in South Africa was wrong, and that something needed to be done. It is very frustrating that it appears that we have to start once again at the beginning, and decide all over again that fascism (whether cloaked in myths of Tutonic supremacy or Zionism) is wrong.

We should know by now that fascism, wherever it emerges and regardless of how sorry we feel for these particular fascists, is always wrong. There are no exceptions, no special cases.Dave,

"Not a lawyer but my understanding is it is legal to serve in the official army of a foreign country as an Australian citizen as long as you are not participating in a civil war. "

Well, I am afraid that your understanding is deficient in this case. It IS illegal for an Australian citizen to serve in ANY foreign conflict regardless of who you are serving with. It does not make a tap of difference whether the force you choose to serve with is an "official" military force or the Popular Front for the Liberation of Otowa.

Now, there is one exception to this law, and that is when a serving member of the ADF is seconded to an allied force for the purposes of training or liaison (or both, persumably). This is a reasonably common occurrance, but it is important to remember that, in such situations, the ADF member is still ultimately responsible to his or her own ADF chain of command so, in this respect, they are still serving as an active member of the ADF.

It is common for Australian citizens of Jewish heritage to spend a "gap year" (or part of it) in Israel, where they will work on a kibbutz, travel around the countryside, and receive an intensive course of indoctrination into Ziono-fascist ideology. They return to Australia with their loyalties split between Israel and Australia, and many include a stint in the IDF as part of their experience. It is anybody's guess which way they would jump in any conflict between Australia and Israel.

At the moment, there is a civil war going on in Palestine, and one of the antagonists is the state of Israel which sits, like a tumor, right in the middle of Palestine. So any Australians currently serving in the IDF or fighting for Hamas is breaking Australian law.

All I am saying is that there should be no exceptions. If fighting for foreign armies in foreign conflicts is against the law, it should apply equally to all Australians, regardless of their ethnic or cultural heritage.Dave,

It has been illegal to act as a mercenary for a hell of a long time now - at least back as far as WW2. The Act you quote is not the relevant piece of legislation. You need to do more research.

Most countries have similar laws. It makes sense. All you have to do is think about it. You don't want people who are highly-trained in the arts of killing in our community if we cannot be sure whose orders they may be following.

Ask youself a simple question: all of these kids who get indoctrinated in Ziono-fascist ideology as part of their "gap year" come back to Australia, where they may have to live next door to someone from Lebanon, Syria or even Palestine. Are they really going to see them as their fellow Australians, or will they see them as enemies?dave,

It has been illegal for Australian citizens to be mercenaries at least as far back as WW2.Septic,

Some of my best friends have served with the IDF. They are not Israeli citizens although, unlike me, they would immediately qualify as Israeli citizens (and are considered so by the IDF) purely on the basis of their racial background. Unless you have "Jewish blood", you cannot be a citizen of Israel. If you have "Jewish blood" it doesn't matter if you are a mass murderer, Israel will welcome you with open arms.

The funny thing is that there is no such thing as "Jewish blood", and the fact that it is now being used as a means of discrimination by the Ziono-fascist leaders of Israel is just as offensive as the fact that it has previously been used as a means of discrimination by the fascist leaders of Nazi Germany. Any genetic analysis will show that we all have genes inherited from the children of Abraham and that a hell of a lot of us (of European heritage) also share genes inherited from Genghis Kahn. And, in any case, Palestinian Jews (the ones who never abandoned their "homeland", are ethnically identical to Palestinian Arabs - they are quite literally the same people. Classing them as different groups is even sillier than trying to figure out whether a denizen of Alsace is German or French. Either way they will guard your back yard with their lives.

So there you go. There is no impediment to Australians of Jewish heritage joining the ADF. If they wish to, they will be recognised as a citizen. But, if you are not of Jewish heritage, regardless of how committed to the cause of Zionism or how devout your observances of the Jewish faith, you can forget it.

Australia took years to expunge the stain left by a racist imigration policy and there are many who woll claim that the "White Australia Policy" still haunts us and dogs our relationship with South East Asia. Israel should drop its racist policies, eschew theocracy and devote it's energies to creating the SECULAR, inclusive, multi-cultural PALESTINIAN society that is open to all of the people of Palestine - Jew and Gentile alike.PP,

"And Jewish Australians (or Jews anywhere) get automatic Israeli citizenship."

There were lots of Jews in Palestine before the establishment of Israel. Many of them were descended from Jewish families who had never left Palestine but who had converted to either Christianity or Islam, and there were also those who continued to follow the Jewish faith. Many of these people, whose families had occupied the same land for many centuries, were forced out of Palestine into refugee camps in Lebanon, Jordan, and even as far afield as Algeria. Being Jewish did not earn them automatic citizenship.

Israel is a Jewish state in name only. It is, in shape, character and citizenry, a profoundly European enclave on land that for centuries has been a melting pot for the three major Semitic religions and a wide variety of cultural traditions. Israel is run by Europeans for Europeans. Its "citizens" should be seen as similar to the British in India - the privileged members of a foreign population with authority over the local population.

The establishment of the state of Israel by the UN was a huge miscalculation made for the absolute best of reasons. The guilt that we collectively felt for allowing fascism to grow unchecked and for ignoring the plight of refugees (deja vu?) led us into folly. It made us prey to the low-lives who use the genuine suffering of genuine victims to further their own perverted ends - and that is exactly what they did.

Now we have a situation that is somewhere between Sharpville and the Warsaw Ghetto evolving before our eyes in Palestine.

Israel was a MISTAKE. It is up to figure out how to correct this mistake without endangering the genuinely peace-loving occupants of Palestine, be they European/Jewish citzens or Palestinian/Jewish non-citizens. The land clearly belongs to those from whom it was unjustly seized in 1949 and 1967 and, as a starting point it should be returned to them, and the return of Palestinians from filthy refugee camps should be facilitated.

Who is going to pay for all this I hear you ask. Well the forty billion dollars given to the Ziono-fascists in military aid by the US taxpayer every year would go a long way toward covering the cost.PP,

I was not dissagreeing with you either. I was simply pointing out the citizenship of Israel is not open to all Jews. Israel is an enclave for people who can prove EUROPEAN Jewish heritage. If you are one of the Jews who never left Palestine (until you were forced out by the establishment of Israel), you are not eligible for citizenship of Israel.

Israel is a Zionist state, not the secular democracy imagined by its founders.Olive,

"Hockey's budget repairs nothing,"

I agree that Hockey's budget (or what is left of it) is unlikely to be effective in repairing anything, but I think that we do need to accept his word when he tells us that his budget is designed to fix a "budget emergency".

What Mr Hockey isn't saying is that the "budget emergency" is both his prediction and his creation.

Remember all that fuss about which was true: the PEFO or the MYEFO. When you look at the starkly different outcomes of the two study, it is tempting to conclude that either both are wrong or that only one is right. And there has been heaps of rather heated debate over which of these is right or wrong. The funny thing is, though, that in this case, both outlooks were substantially sound.

To understand how two such different results can both be right, you need to understand how the modelling works. A "model engine" is a logical analogue to an actual complex system that operates according to the same "rules" each time the handle is turned (it probably doesn't have a handle, but it should - and a bell that goes "bing" when it's finsihed doing its stuff).

Now, think of one of those mincing machines that your gandmother used to clamp to the kitchen bench. If you put pork into it, you get pork mince. If you put beef into it, you get beef mince. Both are valid results. Despite the fact that the results are different, the machine operated according to its "rules" and the difference in results is entirely due to the difference in inputs.

The inputs for the PEFO were Labor's counter-cyclical fiscal settings. The inputs for the MYEFO were the Tories' pro-cyclical fiscal settings. The difference in outlooks between the two reports can be explained by the difference in inputs. The "budget emergency" that the budget will fail to fix only comes to pass if the budget submitted by Mr Hockey is passed. If he returns to Labor's counter-cyclical settings, the "budget emergency" would never come to pass and the need to raid the pockets of pensioners, kiddies and low-paid workers would not exist.sloth,

"Also the RBA latest forecast (August 2014) are closer to the MYEFO than PEFO"

Well! What a surprise! You put beef into a mincer and you get minced beef. You put pork into a blender, you get minced pork. You put pro-cyclical fiscal settings into an economic model engine during depressed economic conditions, you will get better "assumptions" on stuff like growth, employment, demand, public revenue etc. If you put pro-cyclical settings into the same engine, under the same economic conditions, and you will get more pessimistic "assumptions" on things like growth, demand, public revenue and such.

As I said, there is no great mystery in this. It is simply how systems work. If you put in different things at one end, you can hardly expect the same things to pop out of the other end. Different inputs equal different results.

You need to remember that the "assumptions" you speak of are not "inputs" - they are PRODUCTS and, as such, their exact nature is entirely dependent on the real inputs (pro-cyclical vs counter-cyclical fiscal settings). If assumptions were inputs, you may have a case. But as they are not, you don't.Olive,

Yes, it seems that the only promise on which a Tory government can deliver is economic pain for the majority of Australians.

They can deliver on this promise because it takes very little skill to stop an economy in its tracks. All you have to do is the exact reverse of what you should be doing. So you can guarantee that when a Tory has his hand on the economic handles and tells you to prepare for a rough ride, you'll need a crash helmet, if not a parachute.

Joe inherited an economy that was doing well, but was still on life support. It still needed the life support. The life support was why our economy was out-performing every other developed economy. He cut off the life support and the patient declined. His answer now is to kill the patient so that he can perform the miracle of revivification.

The only problem is that this strategy only works in the first two stages. You can play chicken little and scare the pants of the electorate in order to force a change of government. And you can give dire warnings AND make them come true. Smokin Joe is as good as Costello at that bit. But the bit that Costello never mastered, and which is completely beyond Joe, is how to actually revivify the economy after you have killed it. Both seem to be under the misapprehension that, if a half dose killed it, a double dose should provide the antidote.

And that's when we elect a Labor government to fix the mess.Sir Trent,

"It's all very exciting."

Well yes, but if I want excitement I give my step-son a driving lesson. I would prefer my politics and government to be boring. But if your excitement is spurred by the enticing prospect of the Liberal Party imploding and disappearing into its own fundament, you may well be disappointed.

It has all happened before. Before they were called the Liberals, Tories in Australia called themselves the "United Australia Party". Under the inspired leadership of Sir Robert Gordon Menzies, UAP MP's made themselves wealthy and powerful by skillfully dealing in influence, government favours, favourable development decisions and the like. In return, they were guaranteed generous financial support for their election campaigns. This all erupted into a huge scandal and the UAP crashed and burned.

But Toryism was not finished. Menzies set up the "Liberal" and took extraordinary effort to ensure that the new party APPEARED to be nothing like the old. But ICAC in NSW is starting to reveal that the old tricks of the UAP followed Menzies to his new party. Whether or not the gathering scandal does result in the demise of the Liberal Party is yet to be seen, and there are plenty of rusted-on Tories who haven't even realised that this is a distinct possibility. But one thing is certain. It will not be the end of self-destructive, negative, anti-human politics in Australia. Abbott is no Menzies. If he tried to start a party he would be the only member. But SOMEONE will step up and figure out some new wrapper with which to cover the true nature of Tory politics.

And, I am quitely confident, we will willingly swallow the lie for a third time.CJ,

"From my observations, Abbott is facing an uphill battle "

I think that you are probably right, and this is quite an extraordinary thing in itself (not that you are right, but that such a statement could be right given the history of Australian elections).

Abbott won a thumping victory less than 12 months ago. Normally, Australian electors give a government a second chance and it is rare in the extreme for a government to lose office on its first return to the polls.

The other thing in Abbott's failure is the enormous investment by News Limited, that rides on Abbott's political success. This goes a long way to explain the way in which the government's current difficulties are being largely ignored by commercial television, radio and the Murdoch press. Think of it for a minute: at the moment, the Liberal Party is under the microscope in the NSW ICAC and the revelations being produced on a daily basis are quite extraordinary. While previous ICAC investigations have uncovered dodgey and illegal activities by individual members of parliament on both sides of the House, the current investigation is the first to focus on a party organisation.

Now, can you imagine if it were the Labor Party, rather than the Liberal Party, that was under the microscope? The Daily Terror would have a clever photoshopped picture of Bill Shorten on the front page every day - one day as Vlad the Imapler and the next as Arthur Daley.

And yet, with the press behind him and the inestimable advantage of a first-term incumbency, Tony Abbott looks like making political history by becoming the first leader of a one-term government since WW2.

As a university contemporary of Mr Abbott's and an ex-local of Warringah, I have followed his career since before it started, and I can honestly say that I am not surprised at all. He was a dud back then and nothing has changed.John Coochey,

I used to teach Sunday School while I was at High School. I had no idea what I was doing and, when I realised this I stopped.

The fact that I was a Sunday School teacher didn't do me much good, however, during school scripture lessons. I was sent to the headmaster for "praying wrongly" (apparently I was not holding my hands in the approved manner) on more than one occasion, as well as a number of times for asking genuine questions about some of the more obvious inconsistencies and contradictions in what we were being taught. I strongly suspect that the pain that wracks my fingers when I play guitar is the result of the many canings I received as reward for my inquisitiveness.

But we would be making a huge error if we simply replaced school scripture classes with classes that aim to instill an "official" or "standard" secular morality in our kids. Teaching ethics in schools should be all about empowering kids to make their own decisions on what is right and what is wrong.

The revelations of the Royal Commission into institutional responses to child abuse have proven beyond doubt that instilling a blind obedience to and acceptance of authority in children can dangerously expose them to unacceptable hazards. Kids must be empowered with the intellectual tools to decide for themselves when to trust an adult and when to defy, disobey or contradict.

We owe it to our kids to get this right.frangipani,

"The "head of state" has nothing at all to do with the issue. This is totally an Australian issue and has zero to do with the monarchy."

I can see where you are coming from, but you are a little wide of the mark. You see, it IS relevant to the debate that our Constitution still recognises the monarch of the United Kingdom as our head of state.

In the feudal system from which our monarchic system arose, the monarch was God's representative on earth and ruled by "Divine Right". In other words, the Queen is Queen because God says she is Queen. You and I cannot be a monarch because God has not chosen us.

So, for the monarchy to enjoy any legitimacy at all, God must exist. If God does not exist, you and I have as much claim to the throne as Elizabeth Battenberg ever did and the whole neo-feudal system of rank and privilege comes crashing down.

The desperate defence of the indefensible religious indoctrination of our children is not fuelled by piety, but by fear and loathing of change, social justice and democracy. I personally think that it is time that we left the feudal era behind and embraced democracy without reservation. Getting rid of religious indoctrination in schools would be a good start.Ah,

"If people want their children to have religious education either send them to a religious school or have them taught out of hours."

As Helen Lovejoy said: "Won't somebody think of the children".

This debate should be about the rights of children, not the desires or whims of their parents. ALL kids have the right to the best education that we can give them, regardless of the wealth, social position or beliefs of their parents. NO parent has the right to deny their kids the opportunity to develop their full intellectual potential.

Parents have rights, just as anyone does. But, when it comes to the education of their children, the rights apply to their children and the role of parents is one of responsibility, not entitlement.

ALL kids, regardless of their parentage, have a right to the best education that our society can provide. Our society has a responsibility to provide it and, as parents we have a SOLEMN OBLIGATION to facilitiate it.Trev,

"So in your bigotry you want to deny parents the right to decide if they want their children to take part in RE."

That's the problem, Trev. Too many parents who are so into themselves and what THEY believe, that they couldn't give a stuff about their kids' right to an education.

Education is a RIGHT OF THE CHILD, not a perogative of the parent.

If it is truly Stalinist to place the right of a child to an education over the desire of a parent to produce a carbon copy of themselves, then old Joe has just skyrocketed in my estimations of him. Just goes to show - nobody is all bad. Even Hitler was nice to dogs and passed laws to protect goldfish from boredom.SPITR,

"I wasn't aware that the "right" don't believe in democratic equality, citizenship, equity and social justice."

It is not so much that the "right" "don't believe" in democracy, equality, citizenship and social justice - more that they fear and loathe it.

You need to remember that the fundamental difference between "left" and "right" is one of methodology.

Allow me to explain. In philosophy, there are two starkly different ideas on what truth actually is and how we come to know it. These two schools of thought can be referred to as the "radical" school and the "authoritarian" school. 

"Left wing" politics is informed by the "radical" approach and sees history and society as dynamic and interdependent entities that can only truly be understood through a process of inquiry known as "dialectics". Left-wing thought accepts the inevitability of change and seeks to maximise the advantage to society by managing and directing the change toward outcomes of maximum social benefit.

"Right wing" politics is informed by the "authoritarian" approach, which sees history as simply a static record of a whole heap of random stuff that happened, and society as just a big bunch of people. In right-wing thought, truth is delivered to us by authority (God, Alan Jones, Rupert Murdoch - there are heaps of "authorities"). Right-wing politics views change as a threat and expends its energy in resisting change and confounding the efforts of left-wing thinkers to build a better society.

Social justice, democracy and equity are embraced by the left and loathed by the right because they reinforce and enhance society which, in the blinkered eyes of the right, amounts to a direct attack on the "status quo" and, with it, an attack on their little hoard of comfort, privilege and power.

Neither is right, neither is wrong. They are just different ways of looking at the world.yank,

I would have thought that "religious education" is sort of in the same league as "military intelligence" - you know: an oxymoron.

I suppose that you could call the instruction you receive in school scripture and Sunday School lessons "training" - although training usually results in a useful skill, but "indoctrination" is probably closer to the mark, in that the whole idea is to implant a particular doctrine rather to enhance understanding or knowledge.

Education is something that empowers the individual by providing him or her with the intellectual tools required to make informed, ethical choices on a wide variety of issue and subjects. An education in ethics does not teach you what is right and what is wrong. Ethics is the study of Quality and empowers individuals to make individual choice on what is right or wrong, better or worse, according to the context in which they find themselves. Ethical inquiry can greatly assist you in developing your own moral code, but it can never tell you what is right and what is wrong in absolute terms.

I would be dissappointed if the push to move from religious indoctrination to secular ethics classes simply results in the replacement of one system of enforced "official" morality with another. We live in a universe in which the only absolute truth is the absence of absolutes. The ethics we teach in schools should reflect this inescapable truth.Zing,

"Western forces overthrew a dictator and established a democracy."

No, Zing, that was simply the stated aim of the invasion. It was never the real intention, and it did not come to pass.

Mind you, it must be said that there were quite a few of us who said, before the event, that any invasion of Iraq would end in tears, that the invasion had nothing to do with "liberating" the Iraqi people, and that the only ones to profit from such a move would be the enormous military-industrial corporations whose executives occupied most senior government positions in the US administration, including the Vice Presidency. So this post could simply be a long, gloating "I hate to say I told you so" - type post, but I will do my best to avoid the temptation.

But the simple and undeniable fact is that the invasion, regardless of its aims, has not delivered democracy, or anything even remotely like democracy to Iraq. In many ways, it can truthfully be said that Iraq was more democratic before the invasion that it has been at any time since. After all, before the invasion, women were free to pursue careers, own property, gain an education, keep their genitals intact, grow and show their hair, wear makeup, engage in adultery and walk down the street unaccompanied by a male relative. Since the invasion, these rights have been denied to women in most parts of Iraq. Before the invasion, all Iraqi citizens had free access to excellent health and education services. Since the invasion, it has become impossible for girls in particular to attend schools in many areas.

Democracy is a bit more than simply turning up and casting a meaningless vote - in any case, Iraqis could do this before the invasion. But they could also live in an orderly society with modern services, walk the streets safely, get an education and be cared for in a modern health service. They can still cast a meaningless vote, but everything else has been taken away.

GW Bush stood on the deck of an aircraft carrier and declared "mission accomplished". I cannot imagine a more emphatic proof of the contrary than the fact that the first US ship sent back to the Gulf to handle the latest incident proving the failure of Bush's invasion, was called "USS George W Bush".

 Sometimes history has a wicked sense of humour.Zing,

"Tyranny thrives when good people do nothing."

I am afraid that the rote repetition of tired old clich?s is no substitute for rational argument.

When people, regardless of whether they are "goodies" or "baddies", decide to "do something" without proper regard for the consequences of their actions, the results rarely turn out to be positive. When the people "doing something" have at their disposal an army of young people who are considered surplus and expendable to society (otherwise known as the US Army), a vast armoury of the most despicable and destructive weapons known to humanity, and the means to deploy their forces wherever and whenever they wish, the results of their actions are almost invariably catastrophic.

You cannot change history by denying it. The simple fact is that the US invasion of Iraq failed to achieve any of its stated aims and reduced a once prosperous and cosmopolitan society with the highest standard of living in the Middle East to the hell-hole we witness almost every night on the TV news.

But the US does not bear total responsibility for the mess in Iraq. Strangely it was Winston Churchill's hatred and fear of the British working class, and coal miners in particular, that started the rot. His fear led him to specify that the new "Dreadnought" battleships be powered by oil-fired boilers, and this single decision boosted the strategic significance of the oil reserves of Mesopotamia which, until that time Europe had been happy to leave to the Turks. Churchill's blight on the people of the Middle East became even more severe when, as a colonial administrator, he (with Arthur "Bomber" Harris) pioneered the aerial deployment of chemical weapons against his chosen "test subjects" - the Kurds.

But it was the US who installed Saddam's uncle as boss of Iraq and, in so doing, ousted Iraq's last democratically elected government. And it was the US who backed Saddam's overthrow of his uncle. And it was the US who encouraged Saddam to attack Iran, and supplied it with weapons and the technology to produce chemical and biological weapons. And it was the US who lied to the UN Security Council.

Unfortunately, it is the people of Iraq and the Middle East who have suffered the consequences of these actions.harvey,

"When China dumps us for cheaper minerals in Africa or Mongolia Australia will be toast."

You are quite right.

Human beings do not enjoy the right to choose their country of citizenship. You are born somewhere and you are stuck with it, unless some other country is kind enough to take you in.

Corporations, on the other hand, are free to wander the globe, using the resources and exploiting the labour power of whichever country they choose to prey on. And, while human migrants seeking citizenship have to satisfy exhaustive character checks and swear allegiance to their new country, corporations are free to do as they please without any commitment to the society they are exploiting.

If we don't like a law, we still have to obey it. If a corporation does not like a law, it can hold OUR government to ransom by threatening to withdraw its operations, to get the law changed. And, of course, corporations are also free to bribe governments and parties with electoral donations, effectively "purchasing" favourable policies and legislation, as we have seen with the Tories' commitment to the abolition of action on climate change and the Mineral Resource Rent Tax, changes to FOFA and intellectual property laws. 

We need to remember that society is the creation and the property of human beings. Tens of thousands of generations of human beings stretching back over 100,000 years. Corporations are simply a transient feature of the society we created and it is obscene and offensive to suggest that they should enjoy rights and powers that are superior to those enjoyed by any human being.

If we are to put humans back in charge, we need to restrict and regulate the international flow of capital and to forcefully and confidently re-assert the sovereignty of OUR democratic governments. And OUR democratic governments must work together break the power of the multinationals and to reassert the democacy that our forefathers fought so hard to win.EVAN,

"You think the government will pull on a DD"

You'd have to say that, under normal circumstances, this would be pretty unlikely. Although, as you probably realise, my opinion of Mr Abbott is not exactly glowing, I think that he can probably muster at least enough nous amongst himself and his army of advisors, to realise that a DD is unlikely to improve his situation, even if he were ahead in the polls.

The whole point of calling a DD is to authorise a "Joint Sitting" in which bills that have been rejected twice by the Senate can be passed by a majority of votes by members of both houses. But this only works if you achieve a majority in both houses, in which case a "Joint Sitting" would be purely symbolic, or if you achieve a large enough majority in the lower house to outweigh any deficiency of votes in the upper house. What makes this particularly tricky is that the Senate is elected on a "proportional representation" basis. This effectively means that, to gain a seat, a candidate must achieve a certain "quota" of votes.

Just to simplify things, lets say that there are 100 senate seats in total. In a General Election, 50 of these seats are up for grabs. This would mean that a candidate would have to gain 2% of the votes in order to achieve a "quota" and be elected. But in a DD, 100 senate seats are up for grabs but, because we are only talking about the same number of votes, each candidate only has to gain 1% of the votes to achieve a "quota" and be elected. This makes it more, rather than less likely, that a large number of "micro-party" candidates be sitting on red leather seats.

But, remember my caveat (under normal circumstances)? I would argue that these are not normal circumstances. Although Mr Abbott is probably well aware of the above, his demeanour of late has closely resembled that of a cowed and cornered bully. He could very well lash out in pure desperation.

I suppose that we will just have to wait and see. One thing, at least, is fairly certain: now that Clive has taken over as head clown and ringmaster of the Circe du Senate, we are in for some thrills and spills.John1,

"It is all very well for Yank and others to say "they lied", but how does that relate at ALL in relation to the carbon tax that they are blocking?"

Whether it does or not is largely beside the point. The job of all members of parliament is to represent the best interests of their current constituents and future generations of Australians. They do this by examining legislation proposed by the Cabinet (or in rare cases by "private members") and either passing it, amending it, or rejecting it, based on their judgement of its merits in relation to the above considerations. It is not the job to reward Mr Abbott or anyone else for "winning" an election by simply rubber-stamping any legislation he throws up.

Mr Abbott won the election largely by making a whole heap of promises that he knew he could not keep (in fact, many of them were mutually contradictory), and he is now learning that victories won by such subterfuge are likely to be Pyrrhic in nature. While King Pyrrhus was wise enough to recognise the dubious nature of his victory, Abbott is reacting more in the manner of the Emperor Nero (or was it Caligula? - I never can remember which looney it was), who had his troops flog the sea for thwarting his invasion of some place or other - probably Britain.

So, while the question of Mr Abbott's truthfulness before the election is not really relevant to the merits of the legislation he is now proposing, it is very relevant to his current difficulties, not least because it is becoming increasingly clear that his pre-election duplicity has become the model for his dealings with the new senate.
Mortan,

"So this our new democracy is it ???"

Not really, but it is what we have accepted as a tolerable approximation of democracy for quite some time now, ever since 1901, in fact.

What you need to remember about our system of representative democracy with a bi-cameral parliament, independent judiciary and (until the election of the Abbott government) apolitical armed forces, is that elections are not two-horse races, and they are not decided on a "first-past-the-post", or "winner takes all" basis. Elections simply decide who sits in which seats. They do not imply a special mandate or authorisation for specific policies - only plebiscites and referenda on specific issues can do that .

But all governments, regardless of the electoral system or model of government, have exactly the same mandate: to govern well, and in the best interests of the people. And this is not an entitlement or authorisation, it is a solemn obligation.

Mr Abbott's job is to represent us all and to promote our national interests in the international arena, to develop, promote and prosecute a long-term plan for the future of Australia (not just the budget), and to lead the process of developing new legislation in accordance with this long-term plan, and successfully negotiate its passage through the parliament.

The job of Members of Parliament is to review legislation proposed by the Cabinet and either approve, amend or reject it in accordance with their individual mandates as MHRs and Senators - to faithfully serve the best interests of their contemporary constituents and future generations of Australians.

So far, Mr Abbott's record has been one of failure and embarrassment on both the international and domestic stage. While it would be fair to say that it is early days yet, it is also fair to say that Mr Abbott is struggling to find his feet. Unless he recovers quickly, the damage is likely to be permanent.Ginga,

"The tax rates in Australia are far too low for what Australians demand from the government"

You may well be right, but I think that it would help to take a slightly higher-level view of things. You see, it's a bit hard to make a judgement on whether taxes are too high or too low in isolation. You also need to factor in the other sectors that consume part of the "pie" (Gross National Income, or GNI).

The "pie" can be broken up into three sectors: government expenditure, wages and salaries, and "capital rent" which, in late capitalist systems, is also known as "corporate rent". Government expenditure is funded by public revenue, which has two major sources: taxes (including levies, excises and such), and dividends from profitable public enterprises. Wages and salaries are funded by the wealth created by the expenditure of human labour power, in most cases in conjunction with privately-owned capital of "employers" (corporations). Capital rent is also funded by the expenditure of human labour power, and is extracted by corporations in return for access to the capital they own or control (factories, plant, equipment and, increasingly, national infrastructure).

If we look at the economy as an enterprise whose purpose is to satisfy the needs and wants of its "shareholders" (us), the sectors of National Income consumed by government expenditure and wages and salaries is the "return on production", and the sector consumed by capital or corporate rent is the "cost of production". In the period 1977-78 to 2007-08, the share of National Income consumed by corporate rent rose from below 15% to over 27%, while our return from the enterprise shrunk from over 85% to below 73%.

It doesn't really matter how much tax you charge in total, governments will continue to struggle to fund essential social services and nation-building, and citizens will continue to struggle to make ends meet, unless the fundamental problem of rising costs (corporate rent) and shrinking returns (wages, salaries and government expenditure) is addressed.Simon,

"The political case for the budget should have started before the election, making it clear that our budget actually needed fixing."

Of course, the rather obvious problem with this is that the message was a lie. There is no budget problem of sufficient urgency to require the level of cuts proposed in the budget and, had Hockey simply continued the counter-cyclical policies and settings employed by the previous government, there wouldn't have been a problem in the long term either.

But what we are seeing now is simply a demonstration of the yawning gap in simple, fundamental, political and even social skills between the Labor Party and the Tory rabble. The last government governed effectively and efficiently despite the fact that it faced the almost unprecedented challenge of a "hung" lower house. After the 2010 election, most observers assumed that the conservative leanings of the cross-bench independents would ensure that they would endorse Abbott as PM. But the lack of a clear majority placed Abbott and Gillard in a position where their skills as a negotiator and statesman could be compared and, despite Abbott's advantage in being able to deal with ideological allies, it was Gillard's superior talents that won the day.

Over the next three years, the government lost only two votes in the lower house and, in terms of both the number of bills passed and the historical significance and political difficulty of the bills, was the most productive and nation-building government since Federation.

Abbott has already lost more votes in a fairly standard and unremarkable Senate than Gillard lost in the more difficult and unusal lower house in three years. And it is his profound lack of negotiating skills, his arrogance, sense of entitlement and erratic, aggressive personality that is to blame. Putting the incurably unlikeable Abetz in charge of negotiations was simply the icing on the cake.

Politics is more than just winning elections. Abbott is learning this very painfully. What on earth were the 'faceless men in blue ties' thinking when they made him their gopher?FUE,

"Negative gearing in Australia was aimed at the idea of owning ones own home,"

Who told you that?

Home owners are ineligible to "negative gear" their homes. Negative gearing was inttroduced by Tories in order to make it easier to make money from speculative investment in residential real estate. Under the scheme, working Australians subsidise the renovation and capital improvement of "investment properties" (aka gambling chips).

Negative gearing simply takes home ownership out of the reach of the majority of Australians and, if allowed to continue long-term, will turn us into a nation of tennants, and our landlords will live overseas.Bill,

"It is not just investors that would be hit you would hit all home owners as the price of all real estate would fall. "

The rise and fall of house prices is of no concern to genuine home owners. As a matter of fact, genuine home owners are better off with lower, rather than higher, house prices because this keeps their council rates liability down.

The house you live in is always worth exactly the same: it is always worth precisely one home. If the price of your house goes up, there is a very good chance that the price of the house you would buy if you sold yours, would also go up. You cannot realise the "value" of your home in dollars without accepting homelessness as a consequence.

The big problem with our hopelessly inflated house prices is not that it disadvantages those who already own homes, but that it places insurmaountable barriers to entry in the way of young Australians looking for their first home. Well, that's ONE of the big problems anyway. The worst effect of a housing market is that it diverts billions of dollars from productive investment into speculative investment that produces absolutely no wealth.....but that's another story.RoxyR,

"I see one difficulty though, those 1.9 million investors vote."

And they will always vote for the Tories. But there are millions more voters who actually work for a living and, in most cases, do not realise that they are effectively carrying the 1.9 million investors AND the foreign corporations who own almost all of the shares and control our economy. There may be 1.9 million "investors" in Australia, but their holdings represent less that 5% of the total value of listed companies.

The simple fact is that anyone who is not one of the 1.9 million parasites, but votes for the Tories is effectively not only cutting their own throat, but stabbing their fellow citizens in the back. You can understand some of the 1.9 million voting for the Tories because they seem to cater to their short-term interests, but why anyone who works for a living would vote for a party that favours the interests of foreign corporations over those of Australian human beings is beyond me.

Australia has been periodically afflicted with Tory governments because a hell of a lot of Australians who work for a living vote for a party that promotes the interests of foreign corporations over their own and those of their children. The rest of us have every right to be very, very annoyed at their irresponsibility.blax5,

" What is not fine is non-deductability of childcare fees as cost of business"

You have touched on what should be a VERY sore point with all Australian citizens.

When a company is taxed, it is taxed on its NET income (revenue minus operating costs), but when a human citizen of the Commonwealth is taxed, he or she is taxed on his or her GROSS income (total income INCLUDING operating costs).

Companies produce products. So do human citizens of the Commonwealth. Our product is called "human labour power" and the "input costs" of human labour include ALL of our living expenses (food, education &amp; training, accomodation &amp; security, leisure, cultural enrichment, healthcare etc). These are the production costs of human labour and, if we were treated with the same gentle consideration shown to foreign corporations, we would only pay tax on the fraction of income that exceeds the average cost of living.

It is galling for anyone who really cares about being human, or being Australian, that our society affords to foreign corporations rights and privileges that are denied to its own, human citizens. We really need to get a grip on ourselves and remember what we have an economy for and why we tolerate the existence of companies and corporations in it. Corporations are supposed to serve the needs and wants of HUMAN citizens not the other way around. While we continue to place the whims and demands of business above the rights and legitimate interests of human beings, stupid contradictions will persist and become progressively more difficult to ignore.Peter,

"the mess of a system we have inherited through successive LNP and Labor governments "

The fact that neither Labor or Tory governments have been able to "fix the system" suggests that, despite their differing ideologies, governments are not free to reform the tax system or economy in whichever way they like. But I think that the stark ideological differences between Labor and the Tories does make a difference in terms of which side is more likely to "fix the problem" if they could.

There is no conflict between the ideology of the Tories and the "mess of a system" we currently have. Tory ideology rooted in the divine right of business to do whatever it pleases and the absolute responsibility of human beings to facilitate that. Provided that their donors are making megabucks, everything is fine. That is why Howard happily presided over the "Bottom of the Harbour" scheme in which hundreds of viable Australian businesses were destroyed and asset-stripped for tax breaks, sending billions of dollars of revenue overseas. It was only after the election of Bob Hawke that this criminal rorting was brought to an end.

There is, however, quite a conflict between Labor ideology and the current "mess of a system". According to Labor ideology, there is a difference between speculative economic activity and productive activity. Productive activity is good because it returns a benefit to society in the form of increased wealth. Speculative activity is bad because it simply moves wealth from one place to another without creating anything at all. Income derived from speculative activity has to be generated by someone else who gets no benefit from their efforts.

Labor has not been able to change the system simply because we have not supported their attempts to do so. Our cowardice in the face of bullying from overseas press barons and our inexcusable failure to use our own intelligence has effectively neutered any attempt made by a Labor government to reduce or eliminate idle speculation as a source of income.

Negative gearing would be a thing of the past if we had supported the Hawke government's efforts to get rid of it. We would already have a carbon trading system in place if we had the guts to support our government when it takes actions inour interests. We would have a much stronger and more widely based super-profits tax that would prevent the loss of billions of dollars each year paid in dividends to foreign shareholders, but generated by Australian labour-power.

You don't really need to ask "what would you do?" because we already know what Labor would have done had they had us behind them.PW,

"What do you suggest renters do, Mongo?"

Well, if negative gearing were abolished, the speculators would desert residential real estate faster than rats can escape a sinking ship. This would cause house prices to fall dramatically to more natural and sustainable levels and, hey presto! all of a sudden a whole lot of "renters" would be in a position to become "owners". This would greatly reduce the demand for rental accommodation and, as a consequence, drive down rents for the remaining "renters".

You see, there is a housing shortage in Australia, but this housing shortage is not the result of a shortage of houses. This may seem contradictory and it is. And that is how you know that a system is broken - when it produces contradictions. It is a result of the "fat famine" effect, which is just one of many shortcomings of the capitalist system. Believe it or not, when the Irish Great Famine was at its worst, Ireland was one of the largest exporters of wheat in Europe. There was no shortage of food in Ireland, it was just that the Irish couldn't afford to buy it.

We are in a similar position in Australia. While plenty of people who wish they could afford to be "renters" sleep under bridges and on park benches, tens of thousands of perfectly liveable residential properties lie empty because their speculator-owners can make more money by leaving them empty than they can by renting them out at affordable rents. It was a similar situation in the Great Depression when tens of thousands of hard working Australians were reduced to sleeping rough on streets full of empty houses - all owned by the banks.

Negative gearing is a major market distortion and it has major negative consequences including homelessness, unaffordability of home ownership and, most seriously, it starves our industries of the funds they require for PRODUCTIVE investment, forcing them to seek investment from overseas.

Speculative investment always has a profoundly negative effect on the economy because it takes resources away from productive investment. But speculative investment in residential real estate does not just ruin the economy, it also makes housing increasingly unaffordable for an increasing number of young Australians. Negative gearing encourages this socially and economically destructuve practice and, for this reason alone, it must go.barsnax,

"We have a treasurer with a multi million dollar property portfolio, we have developers in cahoots with politicians via donations."

We have a Treasurer who is the Member for North Sydney, and whose election campaigning has been funded by the "North Sydney Forum" and the "Free Enterprise Foundation", both of which have been identified by ICAC as funding fronts for the Liberal Party, designed specifically for the purposes of laundering donations from questionable and even illegal sources.

And we have a Prime Minister who had to borrow $700,000 from a bank (which one?) in order to cover "living expenses" when Howard lost office, who is still up to his eyeballs in debt, and who is fanatically resisting any efforts to place the banks to which he has such a heavy obligation under scrutiny.

It appears that this government is attempting to rewrite the book on "conflicts of interest".Realist,

"How does negative gearing 'help pay off an investment'?"

Well, it is quite simple.

You buy a cheap house and rent it out to a relative for a peppercorn rent (on the grounds that it is not a very good house and it cannot attract a high rent). Then you throw heaps of money into renovating it, which you can claim as a tax deduction, and dramatically increasing its market value. You then sell the house and pocket the profit at taxpayer expense.

This makes idle speculation in real estate a more lucrative and far more secure option than investing your money in a productive enterprise that actually contributes to Australia's wealth rather than simply shifting it around. Banks would rather lend money to real-estate speculators than to genuine investors because they see the risk as lower and the returns higher. We need to fix this. A shortage of investment funds for productive enterprise and an over-reliance on foreign capital are both far more serious threats to our national sovereignty than ten thousand leaky refugee boats could ever pose.janice,

"I'm a taxpayer"....whopays less tax than she should as a resuklt of being subsidised.

Well janice - I am one of the taxpayers who subsidises your lifestyle, and I would prefer that my taxes were spent on building a better Australia than on inflating your ego. Perhaps you should show a little more humility and a whole heap less self-congratulation.Pete,

"In fact, if you understood capitalism, you'd realise schemes like negative gearing are its antithesis...socialist subsidisation is what it's about"

I agree with most of what you are saying, but you need to be careful with your terminology.

There is nothing "socialist" about governments giving OUR money to real-estate speculators. This is corruption and has nothing to do with ANY political philosophy.

When the colony of NSW was established, a small class of failed British aristocrats were heavily subsidised by the Crown. They were given land and convict slaves and they became very powerful. By the time Bligh became governor and started to attempt to build a cohesive and resilient society with a currency, an education system and a health system, they were able to frustrate his efforts and depose him. This basic conflict between majority of Australians who want an independent and prosperous nation, and the privileged few who see our future as a loyal satellite of overseas masters and see themselves as born to rule, has provided the landscape upon which Australian politics has been played for the last 199 years.

Socialism is an economic system in which the "means of production" is contolled by the government on behalf of citizens, and in which income is distributed in ways compatible with economic stability and sustainability rather than randomly and chaotically as happens in capitalist systems. Socialist governments do not hand out money to parasites and speculators - that is the preserve of corrupt governments in the context of a dying capitalist system.janice,

"How do you reckon I'm going to be a loser?

Do you think rents are going to drop?"

Well, if negative gearing were abolished, idle speculation in residential real estate would cease to be such an attractive option and some may even be forced to invest in productive enterprise rather than real-estate speculation. With the speculators out of the market, house prices would fall to more natural and sustainable levels, greatly increasing the pool of Australians who could afford to buy their own home and subsequently greatly decreasing the demand for rental accommodation (which will further decrease the negative impact of speculation on housing). As you know, lower demand = lower prices (rents).

Australia has a real problem in attracting sufficient investment funds for productive enterprises. This makes us more reliant than we should be on foreign capital. If negative gearing were abolished the relative attractiveness of investing in productive enterprise would increase and the attractiveness of economically-damaging speculative investment would collapse - freeing up more funds for productive investment and taking a great deal of pressure off our current account. It makes no sense at all to maintain a policy that actively discourages Australians from investing in productive enterprises while simultaneously creating an entirely unnecessary housing crisis in a country that has more empty houses than homeless people.

Sorry janice, but sometimes we have to accept that a privilege we enjoy as a consequence of social malfunction is just a temporary bonus that cannot last. You've done well out of one of Howard's more disastrous miscalculations, and you should consider yourself lucky while accepting that the gravy-train couldn't go on for ever.

Remember what Keenedy said: "Ask not what your country can do for you"? Now's your chance to put your country, and your fellow Australians, ahead of your back pocket.C&amp;C,

"The Commonwealth Bank didn't give One Million Dollars to the Liberal Party for nothing to be done to help their cause of greater profits."

Very true.

While there is no necessary link between an electoral donation and favourable legislative decisions, this is always a risk that must be guarded against. The clearest indication that something fishy is happening is usually provided by a close alignment between government policy and the vested interests of the donor.

A good example of when something "fishy" is going on can be found in Queensland, where the Newman Tory government changed legislation RETROSPECTIVELY to ensure that a major donor to the LNP could not be prosecuted for a crime with which it had already been charged.

Of course, things smell even stronger when a government goes against the advice of the public service and experts outside of government in order to satisfy the demands of a sponsor, as appears to be happening with the FOFA changes. In this case, it is not just one sponsor, but most of the major financial institutions in Australia who are pushing for a wind-back of consumer protection.OUB,

" but for the most part I would separate artists and entertainers, unless I was trying to flatter or annoy. Too picky?"

Probably.

Art is a pretty big word, and it covers a lot of territory. I suppose that what it boils down to in this case is whether you consider being entertained to be an aesthetic experience or something else. There are plenty of people who would see entertainment as an art form and I am personally quite comfortable with this. Usually the most entertaining of entertainers are also real masters of another art. Tommy Cooper is a case in point. Cooper was a truly great magician, but is primarily remembered as a great comedian. His comedy was founded on his extraordinary abilities as a magician, and especially his ability to make his tricks go hilariously wrong. Spike Jones is another soaring example. His crazy interpretations of well-known themes could not have been produced by a lesser musician.

Art doesn't have to be entertaining to be art. But being entertaining doesn't stop it from being art. Some things are entertaining without being art. Some houses are blue. But not all blue things are houses, and being blue doesn't make you a house.

I've found things much easier since I gave up worrying about whether something is art or not and concentrated instead on enjoying it.Algernon,

"Whilst he as bought pleasure to many he's also destroyed the lives of many."

True, but what has this got to do with whether his art if fit for hanging in art galleries?

Our art galleries are filled with work from all sorts of people, spanning many centuries. In most cases, the private lives of the artists are not known in any great detail. In some cases, even details like birthdates and place of birth are sketchy. It is highly likely that there have been many paedophiles, rapists, murderers, fraudsters and so on among them, it's just that we don't know which ones are which.

Before Harris' arrest, there were examples of his work hanging in quite a few galleries. They continued to hang there through the trial, completely unchanged by the events in court. In other words, they are exactly the same works now as they were before the trial, when we all still thought that Rolf was a jolly chap.

We know now that Harris has committed some pretty nasty crimes and most of us would be somewhat reluctant to invite him to dinner. But his paintings are just paintings. They ceased to be a part of Rolf Harris before the paint was dry. They are simply works of art. They do not have a moral aspect. They are simply acrylics on canvas/paper/board/etc.

The question of whether his work was ever good enough to hang is another question. I personally doubt it, but taste is a funny thing. But this question should be resolved without reference to the character of the artist. I have seen some awful work produced by some of the nicests and best people I have ever met. And I have seen absolute, sublime works of genius coming from total low-lives. It appears that there is no correlation between the quality of the artist and the quality of the art.Algernon,

" On the other hand he also has been found guilty of sexual abuse of minors he has destroyed their lives."

I don't think that anyone would dispute that Rolf is not a nice person, but this says nothing whatsoever about the quality of his art. Art gallery curators (not administrators) are in charge of what is shown in galleries, and it is their responsibility to base their judgements on the quality of the art, not the character of the artist.

The National Gallery in Canberra features in its collection a truly wonderful piece of art called "Blue Poles", which was picked up for an absolute bargain back in the 1970's by the Whitlam government. It is still a huge drawcard for the Gallery, despite the fact that we know quite a bit about the artist - Jackson Pollock - and what we know is not pretty. In fact, there is a very good chance that "Blue Poles" was painted while Pollock was blind drunk. But it wouldn't matter if "Blue Poles" was the result of a wolf's regurgitations on a doormat, it would still rank of one of the great masterpieces of the 20th Century.

People go to galleries to see great art, not to see the art of great people. I am not saying that Rolf's work is great art, or that it deserves a place in art galleries but, if it is to be excluded, it should be excluded on the grounds of insufficient quality, not who painted it.Peter NQ,

"Too bad if he appeals and is acquitted."

Good point. What a giggle that would be.

Perhaps the real question is why we are still falling prey to the weight of authority and the cult of celebrity despite mounting evidence of the negative consequences of this irrationality. Would the parents of the complainants in the case have trusted a relative stranger like Harris with their children had he not been a celebrity?

I think that, as parents, it is up to us to assess the character of those to whom we entrust our children, and we cannot afford to take shortcuts by placing our trust in the authority of respected institutions or the celebrity of individuals.

Just a thought.frangipani,

"Where does the fame of a Paris Hilton or Kim Kardashian come from?"

I'm really hoping that this is a riddle, and I can't wait to hear the answer.

There used to be a difference between being famous and being notorious. Somehow it got blurred. The cult of celebrity has sort of swallowed both. It's crazy. I'm not sure that anyone actually wanted this to happen, but it did anyway. We have suffered a serious social malfunction and nobody is to blame. It just happened.

Perhaps we place way too much faith in "market forces" to decide how the wealth we produce with our labour power is utilised and distributed. The lavish lifestyles and huge publicity machines of questionable celebrities do not come free, they are paid for with wealth produced by ordinary working people. But is this really what we want?

Whenever I see another vacuous news report on the antics of some hare-brained heir or heiress I think of Fred Hollows and wonder how much more he could have achieved if "market forces" had diverted just one tenth of the wealth consumed by just one of these flawed demigods into his vital work.

Given the choice, I think that most people would rather see the work of people like Fred Hollows and the doctors and nurses of MSF supported ahead of the bizarre antics of spoilt brats.

Phil Manzenera probably said it best: "Is it any wonder the wine is sour, when we let a thief choose the brew he pours us?".Simon,

"If it could be identified that Leonardo da vinci was a child molester would that make the Mona Lisa any less a masterpiece. - No it wouldn't "

Well said.

I'm not sure whether you have read any of Socrates' Dialogues, but you couldn't help reading them without a slight feeling of discomfort with some of his comments regarding the sexual attractiveness of certain young boys. This in no way detracts from the importance of Socrates' contribution to western philosophy. Huddie Ledbetter spent most of his life in gaol for murder, but does this make "Goodnight Irene", "Midnight Special" or "Black Betty" less tuneful? Should Lomax have refused to record him because of his criminal record?

I'm not a great fan of Harris' painting, or his music to tell the truth. But I must say that, since taking up music seriously myself, I have developed a great deal of respect for his skill and innovation as a musician. 

I can't see a problem with judging his music on its quality as music, his paintings on their quality as paintings, and his character on his actions as a person. We just need to be adult enough not to get these things mixed up.Rabbithole,

"Why is that MP allegiance to there party is stronger than there allegiance to their constituents?"

As strange as it may seem, the job of an MP is not just to represent the electors living in their electorate.

Politics is a long-term game played on a historical landscape that spans many generations of individual human beings. While a part of the job of government is to manage the day to day business of the nation, its much more important mission is to make the decisions, draft the legislation, build the infrastructure and guide the economy in ways that reinforce and enhance our civil society, personal liberty and prosperity, and our national sovereignty.

When it comes to the role and responsibilities of individual MP's, it is not surprising that these mirror fairly closely the role and responsibilities of the government they oversee. The responsibility of government to manage the day-to-day affairs of the nation is reflected in the responsibility of individual MPs to advocate for the immediate interests of their electors. And the over-riding mission of government to build a nation is mirrored in the duty of the individual MP to direct their efforts toward the successful prosecution of their party's programme for the future.

Politicians serve two masters - present-day voters and future generations. Populist politicians focus on the present. This is the easy way chosen by cowards. Good politicians respond to the genuine interests and concerns of their contemporary constituents, but never lose sight of the long-term goal, even when this risks creating a perception that they value their party over their constituents.

I've been lucky enough in my working life to be in a position to watch MPs from both sides of the fence at work, close-up. That's why I get a bit cross when people slag them off simply through ignorance of the extraordinary job they do. Some do it better than others, but the vast majority do their best and, in most cases their best is better than you or I could do.Forrest,

"Jonathan, politics is making plenty of sense. It's just the Labor Fan Club who don't understand what is going on."

John Howard, Peter Costello, Malcolm Fraser, Ron Boswell, Barry O'Farrell and John Hewson would, I am sure, be delighted to know that you consider them to be members of the "Labor Fan Club". All have been critical of Abbott's performance and policies since the election.

Thing is, Forrest, it is possible to understand what is going on, and still come to the conclusion that it doesn't make sense. In such cases it is likely that those who claim that it makes sense simply don't fully understand what is going on. There is far too much criticism of the government's performance and policies, coming from too diverse a range of sources, for your claims that the criticism is all down to some "Labor Fan Club" to be taken seriously.Ken,

"I can think of nothing more stupid than to get rid of a carbon scheme that in a years time will morph into an ETS and replacing it with an ETS that will take at least a yera to implement. WTF is the point?"

Good question.

There was a classic episode of "The Goon Show" in which it is discovered that the government wasted a lot of money building an embassy. So the new government orders it burned to the ground and a new one constructed at the proper price.

I've always considered Spike Milligan to be a minor prophet.Tim,

You don't have to be a "leftie" to be concerned if not alarmed by the dangerous swing in western politics toward cheap populism.

Populism is poison to civil society because it concentrates on encouraging us to indulge our least worthy emotions and rewards socially corrosive attitudes with flattery. Although most outbreaks of populism result in nothing worse than a temporary interruption or reversal of social progress, when they go wrong the consequences can be disastrous.

When populism has broken out in Australia, it has generally been tribal in nature. Hughes' vilification of Catholics, Menzies' vilification of communists, Howard's vilification of Moslems, refugees and "people of Middle-Eastern Appearance", and Abbott's revival of Spanish Inquisition tactics in pursuit of scientists, teachers, refugees, unemployed young Australians etc.., have all damaged our civil society and eroded the bonds that make us a civilised nation.

Regardless of which side of the fence you sit on, this can't be a good thing.

Real leaders identify problems and solve them. Populists like Abbott find problems and look around for someone to blame.Andrew,

"What worries me most is the apparent large number of LNP supporters who are unable to see past the brand to the fundamentalist conservatism masquerading as Liberal."

Its been that way for a very long time now. To understand how it came about, you have to go back to the collapse of the United Australia Party.

The UAP was a conservative party. Nobody had any doubt that it was a conservative party. Anyone suggesting that the UAP was a liberal party would simply have been laughed at. The UAP was brought down by the public perception (highly accurate as it turned out) that UAP MPs were for sale to the highest bidder.

Robert Menzies, who had led the UAP to the crushing defeat that led to their demise, set out to revive the UAP under a different name. His main concern in establishing the new party was to partition the activities and decisions of MPs from the party's fund-raising activities. Although recent revelations in ICAC suggests that his best efforts have come to nothing and that the party he founded ended up just as bent as the one he wrecked, but he should be given credit for at least trying.

His choice of the name "Liberal" for the new party was probably the result of the toxic unpopularity of conservatism in traditional Australian culture, combined with the more contemporary and relevant scandals involving influence peddling and corruption among UAP ministers and members.

The Liberal Party was established with the specific aim of preventing the realisation of Labor's social-democratic vision for an independent nation, Menzies saw this as defending the integrity of the Empire, which he saw as his true master.

The only voice curently representing true liberals in Australian politics at the moment are the Greens. Most of their policies could have been taken directly out of Mill's "On Liberty".

I am personally quite sceptical of liberal-democracy because its failure is at least partly responsible for some of the worst disasters in human history (specifically the First and Second world wars), but I do think that it is wonderful that, for the first time since Federation, Australia's true liberals have a voice. I can imagine how galling it must have been to real liberals to see a conservative lobby appropriating their name and dragging it through the dirt.Rhonda,

"Andrew I don't agree that the ALP no longer represents the values under which it was formed. My great-grandfather played a pivotal role in the formation of the ALP"

Generally, I find that people who claim that the ALP has somehow diverged from its "core principles" have very little idea of the history of the Labor Party, what its "core principles" actually are, what a political party actually is, or what role a political party is supposed to play in civil society. So, exactly what they based their judgement is a bit of a mystery. Maybe they just believe everything that Uncle Rupert tells them.

The Labor Party has always been a social-democratic party dedicated to the development of Australia as an independent, prosperous, healthy, well educated and fair society. That is their long-term goal and that is what it has been since day-one.

But, when in government, parties have to govern the country. This often requires them to make and implement policy that does not obviously reflect the long-term goal, but which may be neccessary in the short term to address a particular issue. This does not indicate a divergence from core principles. On the contrary, it simply demonstrates the level of pragmatism required to run a country's day-to-day affairs.

Labor: introduced aged pensions, support for the unemployed, single parents, families and independent students; built most of Australia's most important infrastructure (including the Sydney Harbour Bridge, Snowy Mountains Scheme and Eastern Suburbs Railway); and made the important reforms that have shaped and defined modern Australia (Medicare, universal access to tertiary education, abolition of conscription, abolition of the White Australia Policy, recognition of indigenous land rights, engagement with China and the rest of Asia, engagement with Indonesia....the list goes on and on.) And it is clear from the achievements of the Rudd and Gillard government (NDIS, NBN, Gonski, the National Health Agreement, the Tasmanian forests agreement, carbon pricing...) that there has been no divergence from the programme.sean,

"A decision that confirms that he at least understood what the Liberal Party created by Sir Robert Menzies was about"

I think that that was confirmed better by the events of November 1975, when he was responsible from bringing down a government in order to prevent the construction of a gas pipeline from the north of WA (where the gas is) to the east coast (where the industry is). In so doing, he managed to ensure that Australian manufacturers would be at a permanent disadvantage to their Asian competitors, who enjoy superior access to cheap Australian natural gas.

What Robert Menzies "was about" was preventing the Labor Party from building a modern, social democratic nation on the Australian continent. He made this quite clear in his first speech as leader of the Liberal Party when he defined the party as a "coalition of non-Labor forces in Australian politics". The Liberal Party is unique in the world, in that it is the only political party that defines itself by what it IS NOT, and what it stands AGAINSTt, rather than what it IS, and what it stnads FOR.

Fraser has not rediscovered the Liberal Party, he has become a true liberal and this has taken him a long way from his conservative (Tory) roots. So it is hardly surprising that he shares more in common with Shorten and Milne than with his fellow Tory comrades in the Liberal Party. After all, liberalism and social-democracy are both progressive philosophies.

This all goes to show is that, if you are looking for real liberals, the Liberal Party is a bad place to start your search. Oh, and that, regardless of how mired and twisted by conservatism a person becomes, there is always hope for their rehabilitation.grover,

The problem with this is that, at the moment, just about everybody in Australia stands somewhere to the "left" of Mr Abbott. At least, that's if you pay any attention to the rather silly notion that politics is divided neatly into "left" and "right".

I'm not saying that there is no clear "divide" in politics, but doesn't it strike you as interesting that the two "wings" of politics can look at the same world, arrive at such different world views, and yet put these wildly divergent world views into practice in policies that often look so strikingly similar?

There is something going on here that is far more interesting than deciding which policy or side to support based on whether they sit to the "right" or "left" of you.

The difference in world views can be explained by a difference in methodology.  Ideologies of the "left" spring from the "radical" (or "rationalist") school of Greek philosophy (Heraclitus, Socrates et al) and those of the "right" spring from the "reactionary" (or "conservative") school (Aristotle, Plato et al). According to the radical school, the universe is in flux and truth can only be discovered through rational inquiry and debate. According to the reactionary school, the universe in eternal and unchanging, and truth is decreed by authority. So it is not surprising that they have developed such different world views.

With regard to the apparent sameness in policy resulting from these two quite different ways of seeing the world, there is a rather simple answer to the conundrum. First of all, both sides are, when in government, governing the same country. Second, policy is a long-term thing that is largely developed and administered by the civil service which doesn't, thank heavens, change with every election.

It can be difficult to walk a straight line and avoid obstacles if you are looking at your toes or over your shoulder. Politics is similar. The further ahead you look, the clearer the difference between the "left" and "right", and between Labor and the Tories, becomes. Labor wants to build an independent, social-democratic nation and the Tories want to stop them.Uhmmm

Thanks mate.

It has always amazed me that people seem to think that politics can just be split up into two opposing camps that are diametrically opposed to each other. Most political ideas and propositions are neither left nor right. If "the left" pick them up first, they are seen as "left" ideas, and if "the right" get there first, they are known as "right" ideas. But, when you actually look at the ideas themselves it is often difficult to see a bias one way or the other.

Politics is not like a piece of string with two definite and opposite ends. It is more like a field in which one can take up any position, left, right, back or forward, and in which one can simultaneously entertain ideas that have been embraced by "the left" and by "the right". When I am considering a new proposition, I don't really care whether it comes from "the left" or "the right". I am more interested in whether it is a good idea or not.

But I must say that, when I look back to see where a particularly good idea came from, more often than not it is from the left.ASLSW,

"The problem with the current Government's policies is that there is absolutely no evidence that they will improve the Australian economy "

Yes, if I were a smart-alec, I would be asking where is the "cost-benefit analysis" for Hockey's reversal of fiscal settings. But I'm not, so I won't.

But it is not that there is a lack of evidence that benefits will flow from the reversal of policy that is most worrying. You see, there is lots of evidence that the change will cause serious harm to the long-term health of the economy as well as the living standards and levels of economic opportunity of ordinary Australians.

Hockey's policies simply accelerate the concentration of wealth at the top of the economy. The GFC was caused by excessive concentrations of wealth at the top of the economy. It stands to reason that policies that have been deliberately designed to widen the gap between rich and poor, and to further concentrate wealth at the top, are the worst policies that one could possibly adopt in a crisis caused by coagulated wealth at the top of the economy.

Equality in wealth and income distribution is not just an ideal chased by dewey-eyed, bleeding-heart, idealistic liberals, it is vital for the proper functioning of the economy. The more uneven the distribution of wealth and income, the less stable the economy and the more vulnerable it becomes to external shocks like the GFC.

Economies are driven by consumer demand. If you widen the gap between rich and poor, consumer demand declines simply because the majority of consumers cannot afford to buy as much stuff as they once could. The greater the inequality, the greater the instability and the wider the gap between production and consumption. This inevitably leads to recession, sometimes depression and depressions tend to end in bloody and pointless warfare.

As far as I am concerned, although Hockey's budget and Abbott's policies are morally wrong and will lead to hardship, the far greater objection is that they won't just fail to fix the economy, they will make it worse.

Sometimes governments have to be unfair for the public good. This isn't one of those times.Daz,

"We have one guy (a public servant) "

Abbott is NOT a public servant, not even in the generic sense.

The Public Service is an honourable institution that has served governments of both colours since Federation. It is already maligned enough without smearing it with Tony Abbott's negative karma.

A little respect for our hard-working public servants, please!Sid,

"Olive, Just how many people have you tried and been successful at getting rid of?"

I don't know about Olive, but terminations were a regular part of my job when I worked in HR. It is very simple. You just make sure that you tick all th eboxes, cross all the 't's and dot all the 'i's, and you are covered. If you do it right, you are COMPLETELY and ABSOLUTELY protected from vexacious complaints.

This is why major employers are rarely prosecuted for unfair dismissal - because they have take the time and effort to ensure that their systems treat people fairly and do not breach or curtail their civil rights. Most of the employers who get into trouble for unfair dismissal are cowboys who do not bother to develop proper HR systems and are ignorant of their legal responsibilities as employers.

The simple fact is that, if a business cannot survive without treating its employees fairly and in accordance with the law, it is not a viable business and should get out of the way so that a viable business can take its place. Our economy should not have to carry unviable businesses and there is no way that anyone's fundamental civil rights should be degraded or denied simply to keep an unviable business afloat.

We need a lean efficient economy and we cannot achieve this while we are burdened down by hopeless employers who do not even take the time to find out what their obligations are.

We would have a much more efficient economy if Fair Work Australia had the power to seize businesses who did the wrong thing and hand over their assets to affected employees. I suspect that we would see a market change in th ebehaviour of employees and a far more productive economy as a result.Gary,

"Free trade is forcing us to lower our labour and environmental standards in order to remain competitive."

No, it is the LACK of free trade that is doing this. Our world markets are heavily monopolised, and the power derived from this monopoly control allows certain corporations who control certain industries (like energy, minerals, agriculture and transport) to manipulate market conditions to their own advantage (and to the extreme disadvantage of the human citizens of the planet.

Genuine free trade is the best thing since sliced bread. But it is entirely incompatible with monoploy capitalism, which is the system we are currently in. Monopoly capitalism uses trade as a weapon against human beings - forcing down our wages, destroying our envionmental values, depleting our resources adn trivialising our popular culture.

But GENUINE free trade IS actually happening - on an increasing basis between the nations of the Bolivarian Project. A good example is the agreement between Cuba and Venezuela, in whicfh Cuba gets Venezuelan oil and, in return, are building a world-class health system, staffing it with Cuban health professionals, and training the next generation of Venezuelan helath professionals to take over from the Cuban doctors over time.

It's a brilliant deal for both sides. No money changes hands, which means that there is no need for middlemen, bankers, insurance agents, foreign currency traders and the rest of the parasites that make our trade so inefficient. The Cubans get oil and the Venezuelans get healthcare.

Trade is a great thing - when one country has too much of something and another country too little. But we should not fall into the trap of "trade for trade's sake". If we can grow enough oranges in Australia to satisfy our demand for oranges, we don't need to import them and SHOULDN'T import them.

With the world teetering on the edge of climatic disaster, we simply cannot afford to be moving stuff around the globe unless it is necessary.TC,

"sometimes things get out of whack"

Yep, that's right, sometimes things get "out of whack" or, to be more correct, in a capitalist system, things INEVTIABLY get "out of whack" and keep getting more "out of whack" until a Depression happens, followed by a devastating war. This is the result of the inevitable tendency of captialist markets toward monopoly nad stagnation.

The good news is that there is a cure for it, and it is called RAPID WAGE GROWTH and MILITANT UNION ACTION.

This is not about social justice, it is simple economics. If wealth becomes too concentrated in too few hands, the economy will crash and burn.

So, what is the situation at the moment? Well, after our economy being runinto the ground by 40 years of economic shamanism(otherwise known as "supply side", "Chicago school" "economic rationalism" neo-liberalism" "neo-classical" - they change its name every time it causes Depression and war), it now costs us twice as much as it did 30 years ago to run our economy. Our economy, in other words, is onyl 50% as efficient as it was 30 years ago, and this is leading us to economic disaster.

In 1977-78, the share of Gross National Income extracted by corporate rent was just under 15%. By 2007-78, this cost had blown out to nearly 30% - a 100% increase in thet cost of corporate rent.

What this means is that citizens and their government can only afford to consume a fraction of what is being produced, which leads to growing inventories, production reductions, labour shedding, lower incomes, lower demand for goods and services, rising inventories, reductions in production , labour shedding, falling incomes....and so on until nobody can afford to buy anything, there is no point in producing anything, and the economy ceases to exist.

The way to stop this is to ensure that wealth cannot coagulate at the top of the market, and is kept in constant circulation so that it can continue to fund demand. our economy should be getting MORE efficient, not less, and the way to make it more efficient is to slash corporate profits and ensure that more of the proceeds of productive enterprise is returned to those who supply the labour power that produces the wealth (via higher wages and more generous social security, more investment in infrastructure, health, education and so on).

The last thing we need at the moment is wage restraint. Profit restraint should be the new war-cry for rational economics.Wise,

"Its not the complete picture but its a fine start."

Well, there IS a word limit on posts, you know. DOn't worry, I've got lots more if you want to read it.loo,

"With the flow of people into the private sector we could look at productivity"

Having had considerable experience of working in the pubic service at all three levels of government, as well as in the private sector, I can tell you that the surest way of increasing inefficiency is to take something that is being done by government and turn it over to the private sector.

Telecommunications is a good example. Before our telecommunications services were first corporatised and then privatised, our public telecommunications provider provided us with the cheapest, and one of the best telecommunications services in the world. But, not only that, it trained thousands of apprentices every year, ensuring the private enterprise had access to a large reserve of skilled labour in a number of crucial trades. Since privatisation, our telecommunications system has become so run down that it requires wholesale replacement (at public expense), prices have skyrocketed, service has deteriorated, and we are lagging years behind the rest of the world in telecommunications technology. And we also have a massive shortage of qualified tradesmen and technicians.

We used to get good value out of our telecommunications service, now we don't. The reason for this is that the money that our telecommunications services used to spend on providing telecommunications services now has to be divided between providing telecommunications services, marketing telecommunications services, competing with competitors (competition is expensive and we pay for it), and paying off shareholders.

The question of whether or not we should retain the states, or move to a more centralist model or for a more regional orientation of the middle tier of government is an entirely different question. I personally would like to see some change, as I don't think that the present model is working well at all. But, wherever possible, and regardless of whether state ogvernments exist or not, we should ensure our core services by keeping them in public hands, and let the private sector squabble over selling us stuff that we don't need and wouldn't miss if it wasn't around.Zing,

"Team Australia" is simply Abbott's equivalent of Howard's equally offensive "mainstream Australia", which, in itself, was a simple, apish re-statement of the Bush Doctrine (you are either with us or against us). It is hard to remember the last time that an original idea came from a Tory leader.

The problem that I have with "Team Australia" is that it seems to sit uncomfortably close to the rhetoric employed by the ultra-right political parties in Europe in the 1930's, when not being a part of Team Germany or Team Italy or Team Spain could land you in a concentration camp (yes, that's right, we have them too - Nauru, Manus, Christmas Island....)

I am a loyal Australian and, as a loyal Australian, will not have anything to do with "Team Australia" or any other proto-fascist, exclusivist nonsense that endangers everything that makes Australia worth anything. Mr Abbott should stop trying to use ISIS to divert our attention and concentrate on his own language, which is more of a threat to our way of life than ISIS will ever be.Basil,

"You are right though, had he kept his reasons to himself and just turned down the application with no reason, then nothing would have happened at all."

Not necessarily. If the complainant could establish that his qualifications were suitable for the job and/or superior to those of other applicants, the responsibility would then fall upon the employer to prove that they had valid reasons for awarding th ejob to someone else.

The big problem is that most of those who are discriminated against are unaware of their rights and do not have the resources to make and follow a complaint through the legal process. This means that there are an awful lot of employers out there who can get away with discriminatory employment procedures.zing,

"an employer can decide to employ or not employ a person. They have freedom of choice and they can base their decision on whatever factor they want - whether it be skill, race, skin colour, gender, family connections or good looks."

No Zing - that is simply a direct lie. It is ILLEGAL for an employer to discriminate against any person on the basis of race, religion, skin colour, ethnic background, marital status, sexual orientation, disability or age. There are severe penalties for doing so, but they are clearly not severe enough.

Many employers get away with it because very few of their vicitms are in a position or have the confidence and assertiveness to make a complaint and to follow it through the legal process, which is why we need union inspectors to make random visits to worksites and carry out random audits of employment policies and procedures, and well as union safety inspectors.

It is difficult to overstate the amount of damage done to our fundamental rights by Howard. The denial of the right of entry to union officials on Australian worksites has been responsible for scores of preventable deaths, and thousands of debilitating injuries which are costing the taxpayer many millions a year in compensation and social security support.

"Self regulation" only works when the "self regulator" has some sort of commitment to following the regulations. It has been a total failure when applied to employers, who clearly cannot be trusted to act responsibly or honourably. We need to get the unions back in there to save lives and protect workers from this sort of vile treatment of our fellow Australians being meted out by employers.Chris,

Brandis was right - or at least, half right.

You see, we DO all have a right to be a bigot, just as well have a right to hold our breaths until we turn blue if we don't get our own way, to drive our car like an inconsiderate pig, to fart in elevators, and to recline our seats on short-haul flights. Most of us don't, because we have grown up and realise that many of the things that we have a right to do, we also have a responsibility not to do.

We have a right to free speech, and a responsibility to ensure that what we are saying is true, and is not intended to cause offence. We have a right to be a bigot in our own personal opinions, and a responsibility to treat all of our fellow human beings with respect and dignity, regardless of their race, religious belief, skin colour, sexual orientation, marital status or any other feature of the person.

Tories like Brandis can tell you what THEIR rights are and what OUR responsibilities are. But if you ask them what THEIR responsibilities and OUR rights are, and they look at you in total bewilderment. That is what being a Tory is all about: no care, less responsibility.Poe,

"Having spent 30 years in the corporate business sector, I can tell you there are a S!tload of highly paid, opinionated, useless, parasitic scum out there who deserve neither respect or assistance yet seem to get both. "

My experience tends to agree with yours.

I've spent a bit more than 30 years interacting with management and business owners, and with workers on the shop floor in all sorts of capacities - from lowly labourer to union representative, systems analyst, business analyst, business owner, employers' advocate. And I think that your assessment is pretty accurate. In fact, I would go so far as to say that we could dispense with our entire management class and very few of us would notice a difference (except that life would be much easier).

You comments re: ICAC are of interest.

Unfortunately ICAC is a NSW body and it's powers to examine the behaviour of parties on a Federal level are limited. But we have already seen that the endemic, systemic corruption in the Liberal Party that is  being revealed in ICAC is definitely not limited to the NSW branch of the party - in fact, it appears more likely that it is based in the Federal Party.

What we really need is a Federal ICAC to clear this mess up and get to the bottom of the unseemly relationships between the Liberal Party and its corporate sponsors.Harvey,

"Yes ICAC, the little exercise in ALP bashing now suffering from a bit of friendly fire. "

Not for the first time.

NSW has had two premiers step down in disgrace over revelations in ICAC corruption investigations, and both of them have been from the Liberal Party.

ICAC was set up by Greiner, and Greiner was its first major victim. O'Farrell used ICAC to sneak into power, and ended up being brought down by his own stupid lies.

It is quite amazing how often one is reminded of King Pyrrhus every time the Liberal Party tries to set up a kangaroo court. It usually works for them for a while before blowing up in their faces. They claim a few scalps, but then when their own behaviour comes under scrutiny, the results are devastating. At least old Pyrrhus had the sense to wonder "how many of these victories can we afford?".

With Mr Abbott's witch hunt into the unions casting doubt on the credibility of Craig Thompson's principal accuser, but failing to unveil any evidence of corruption in the wider union movement, the revelations coming from ICAC about systemic corruption within the NSW Liberal Party may soon seem like small beans indeed.
loo,

"Why can't the less well off, accept the fact that...well, they are less well off?"

Maybe they suspect that if most of the wealth generated by Australian remained in Australia to benefit Australia, more Australians like them may be "more well off". They may be "less well off", but that doesn't mean that they are stupid.Come now Gregory....

A person who is "less well off" is less well off than the person with whom you are comparing them. A person who is "very well off" is, presumably, someone who is more well off than the person with whom you are comparing them and with most other people as well.

I think that, if you had tried really hard, you probably could have figured that out for yourself.struck dumb,

"I don't smoke, drink, gamble or do drugs, but how dare you tell me how I spend my pension!"

Well said, my friend, and more power to your elbow.

We need to remind ourselves, constantly, that we are ALL citizens, and we ALL have the same rights.

If Gina Reinhart doesn't have to explain why she spent so much flying Liberal Party MP's around the world for social engagements, why should you have to account for the way in which you spend your money. After all, Ms Reinhart's revenue generation activities extract more from our economy each year than any hundred social security recipients could possibly manage in a lifetime.

Enjoy your spinning - as a citizen, you deserve it. The Pursuit of Happiness is, after all, one of the three Rights of Man that provide the foundation stones of our democracy.Karl,

"A mobile phone can be cheaper than a landline"

Yes, and if you are looking for work, it is a necessity.

Tom is obviously lucky enough to have remained innocent of these little facts of life. I hope that his luck holds out and he never has to experience what, for many, is simply everyday life.gbe,

" I can tell you from personal experience many of these people "

This is why we have a professional discipline called "statistics". You see, "personal experience" is almost certain to mislead you when you are talking about populations.

Here's a good example:

For as long as I can remember, it has been accepted as a truism that around 10% of the adult population are homosexual. For many of us, including myself, this has always seemed to correlate pretty closely with "personal experience". In reality, only a bit over one percent of the population identify as homosexual.

Here's another. It's sometimes called the "new car syndrome". You buy yourself a new car (it doesn't actually have to be new - a second-hand one will do, as long as it is new to you) and, while you are driving home from the dealer's, you suddenly notice how many cars there are that are the same make and model as your own.

The two examples have the same cause.

Our brains are very clever things. From a very small amount of information, our brains can construct a huge amount of detail. This allows us to make quick decisions based on the most likely explanation of the sensory information we are receiving, by relying on assumptions about what is normal or what is likely to happen next, given a particular stimulus. Effectively, we make decisions that allow us to respond quickly to situations by "pre-judging".

This ability to fill in detail and anticipate likely future events tends to be disrupted by novelty, and in novel situations we have to rely more on the conscious analysis of the situation as a unique event. Before you got your new car, there was no particular reason why you would  notice that make or model going past. But as soon as you get it, that make and model are significant to you, so you notice every one you see, and you remember it. If you were asked in a survey what percentage of cars on the road were that make and model, you would almost certainly over-estimate.

Now, if you are wracked by downward envy, as you appear to be, it is highly likely that you would notice every time you saw someone who you pre-judge to be "undeserving" enjoying something to which you think that they are not entitled. You remember it and, for this reason, you are likely to overestimate the number of people in this situation as a percentage of the overall population.

Don't worry, it is an easy mistake to make. As I have explained, it is simply a consequence of the way our minds work. But the important thing is that, now that you understand the source of your error, you needn't make the same error again.

Happy thinking.Sandra,

"They approve of the co-payment ($6.15), however they want the proceeds to go to the doctors. Is that what you agree with?"

Isn't it incredible. Abbott is so hopeless a negotiator that he cannot get people who WANT a co-payment to agree to a co-payment. How does he expect to make headway with people who don't agree with him.

I suppose that you could describe Mr Abbott's problem as "The Incompatibility of Two 'N's" (negotiation and narcissism). Generally, narcissism is a big disadvantage in any activity that requires cooperation between human beings. This makes it difficult for an extreme conservative party like the Liberal Party and its members, because the stated aims and policies of the Liberal Party tend to attract only narcissists as members.

You should not be that surprised by Mr Abbott's total failure to get support for a co-payment from a group that, until Mr Abbott started talking to them, actually wanted a co-payment. After all, in 2010, Mr Abbott was in the box seat to become PM. All he had to do was convince two or three ideological allies on the cross benches to support him. and he would have been moving into the Lodge three years earlier.

But Mr Abbott's brutish and insensitive approach to negotiation convinced the cross benchers that Ms Gillard, an ideological opponent, was a better choice for PM.

Oh, but the way, Sandra, the AMA proposal for a smaller co-payment also stipulates that most Australian citizens would be exempt from paying it.Bren,

"Is that the same PM who got personally involved to negotiate Mining Tax version 2, and the vast rivers of govt revenue that have flowed from that 'successful' negotiation."

I would suggest that you spend the time to learn exactly how the mining tax was supposed to work before commenting.

It's not that difficult to figure out, actually. Quite straightforward really, and Tories are going to have to admit eventually that, either they agree with the idea of a mining tax, or they are just too thick to understand basic economics.

Here's how it works. The mining tax was designed to tax EXCESSIVE profit-taking by mining multinationals.

Now, you don't generally generate super-profits when you are contructing the thing that is going to generate the super profits. You have to wait until the thing is built before you can do this. The government always realised this.

There is a very good reason for structuring the tax in this way. Most of the benefits to Australia, of allowing multinational mining conglomerates access to OUR minerals comes to us during the CONSTRUICTION phase. This is really the only time when any of the money generated by mining actually stays in Australia. Once construction is over and extraction begins, all of the money flows straight into the hands of foreign shareholders and, as working mines employ only a negligible number of people, no economic advantage flows to local communities.

And this is what the mining tax was designed to tackle.

The most recent cycle of construction in Australian mining is almost over and, with it, the "boom" created by construction activity. As a result, revenues to government from the mining inductry will peter out and it will have to spend more to support communities devastated by the end of mining construction. But it is also when the "super-profits" will start to roll, and when the revenue really starts to flood into government coffers.

See how elegant a solution it really is? While mining is contributing to the economy (in the construction phase), it does not pay a super-profit tax. But, when it is extracting wealth from the economy and no longer contributing, it becomes liable to pay the super-profit tax.

The expected abolition of the mining tax was one of the changes to the inputs used by Treasury when preparing the MYEFO (along with serious reductions in government expenditure), and explains at least paritally the blowout in peak debt from $340 billion under Labor's policies to $670 billion under the Tories. All that extra revenue that Labor's policies would have brought into government coffers would have allowed the government to pay the debt off faster than if they tried to slash and burn as Hockey has done.havasay,

"True, why would Labor want to neutralise PUP ? "

I think that it is all a matter of priorities.

Despite the most hostile parliament in the history of Federation and the worst international economic decline since the Great Depression (don't worry, its still early days yet) the previous government achieved a hell of a lot of stuff, and most of it was very, very good for Australia. And these achievements were built on the foundations of the achievements of previous Labor governments. In short, they have a lot to defend, and the main threat to the great social and economic reforms achieved by Labor is clearly the Abbott government, not PUP.

Now, with the way in which the numbers are currently aligned in the Senate, Labor faces a difficult challenge. Most of the new Senators are natural ideological allies of the Tories and would, by default, side with the Tories over Labor. But this was also the case in the previous Parliament when, in order to form government, Ms Gillard had to negotiate an agreement with "lapsed" LNP members on the crossbenches. It is not surprising that Labor tends to handle such situations well. After all, most Labor MP's are seasoned veterans in the arts of negotiation by the time they enter parliament - as a result of their previous work as advocates for their fellow workers, while it is something that Tory MPs have to learn "on the job" after being elected - and you can't teach an
old dog new tricks.

The oppotunity to "neutralise PUP" does not arise for another five years yet. Labor will have an important job to do ensuring that no more PUP senators make it into the Senate at the half senate election in two years time, but the really important thing is to replace the current rabble with Labor senators in five years time.

But "neutralising" PUP is not as much of a problem for Labor as it is for the Tories. Labor, both on a state and federal level, has repeatedly demonstrated an ability to work constructively with cross-benchers regardless of their political leanings. The Tories lack the skills and personal qualities required for such cooperation, so their only option is to try to anihilate all opposition - even from your natuural allies.AJS,

"Quite simply - they overspent "

There is nothing simple about running an economy, which is why Tories prefer to talk in terms of balance sheets. Balance sheets are static documents. You can balance a budget very easily. All it takes is to make the numbers on one side of the line match the number on the other side.

Running an economy is a different matter. Economies are dynamic entities. In fact they are a special type of dynamic entity called a "chaotic system". Chaotic systems have a fascinating feature whereby small and seemingly insignificant variations can have enormous effects. This happens through a process known as "feedback".

The GFC was triggered by the loss of a relatively insignificant amount of money (when compared to the amount of money in the system) but, in most countries, the effects were allowed to feed back onto themselves before corrective action was taken. This meant that, for most of the world, governments had to spend huge amounts (the US is STILL printing tens of billions a month) just to prevent a total collapse of their domestic economies. Australia stands out as the exception. A rapid and well-targeted response from Mr Swan corrected the fall in domestic demand and maintained economic activity at levels that could maintain public spending. As a result, we came through the worst meltdown since the Depression with one of the smallest debts in the developed world, low unemployment, a healthy current account and a triple A credit rating.

Too much? I'd say they spent just the right amount at just the right time.ex,

"Turning left 3 times is equal to a right turn"

No, it isn't. It is still a turn - 270 degrees to the left. This is one of the consequences of two-dimensional thinking in a four (at least) dimensioned universe.

But this is why I really don't like the old "left/right dichotomy". "Left" and "right", in spatial terms, are opposite. But in political terms, "left" and "right" are not at opposite ends of a line, but rather at different positions on an ideological and political landscape that is multi-dimensional.

The difference between left and right is not so much a function of their different policy agendas and longer term vision, but in how they arrive at these things.

I won't bore you with an historical commentary on the great schism that occurred in Western philosophy around the time of Socrates, Plato and Aristotle. Suffice to say that there was one, and that the followers of Aristotle took the "Platonic" approach and the followers of Socrates took the "radical" or "rationalist" approach. The term "right-wing" actually comes from the French "adroit" and dates from a time when the right hand was considered to be virtuous and the left "sinister".

It is quite possible for someone using right-wing methodology and someone using left-wing methodology to come up with the same answers. For example, if posed with the question: where in the sky will the sun appear next morning, both could probably tell you that it would rise slightly to the north of east (if you happen to be in the southern hemisphere at the time). The "right wing" person would get this information from an authorative source (like an encyclopedia), while the "left-wing" person could do the same, if such a source existed, or figure it out from first principles (radical approach) if no authorative source existed. The answer would be the same, but the person using radical or "left-wing" methodology could explain why if questioned, but the "right-wing" person could only respond with "we all know" or "because that's what the book says".

When thinking left and right in a political or philosophical context, you need to keep your hands in your pockets and think about the methodology, not the directions. This is the best way to avoid saying idiotic things like the line I have quoted above.jack44,

"Your assertion that most of the new senators are "natural idealogical allies of the Tories" is laughable."

I once saw a couple of eight year old kids in absolute stitches over a splattered meat pie. You know what they say about small minds.....

OK, lets go through them: one DLP (ultra-conservative) Senator. One LDP (ultra-conservative libertarian), a whole gaggle of PUP (right-wing populist) senators. In the previous parliament, all Abbott had to do was to convince two former National Party members from conservative rural constituencies, that they should support a conservative PM instead of a social-democratic PM. He failed and, in doing so, gave us an object lesson in the impotence of the bully. Ms Gillard gave us all an object lesson in the power of patient, respectful negotiation.

Now none of this should have come as a surprise to those of us who have some experience in negotiation and bargaining, especially those whose ideeologies, and sometimes vested interests, are opposed to your own. The important thing is to leave yourself out of the process and concentrate on the solution, the obstacles between you (and those with whom you are bargaining) and the solution, and how to overcome those obstacles.

Quite a few Labor politicians, including Ms Gillard, made their way into parliamentary politics via the trade union movement, and you find it difficult not to pick up some negotiation skills along the way.

Tory politicians are largely drawn from the legal, banking and management professions in which the authority of their positions allows them to prevail in negotiations without negotiating. They are unused to negotiation on a level playing field or when the cards are stacked against you. For this reason, they are more likely to become frustrated when things do not proceed as expected, are less capable of adapting to changing circumstances, and are much quicker to resort to bullying and threats in th eplace of negotiation.

Not everybody can be good at everything. Tories aren't good negotiators - never have been.Roxy,

"It may not exist now but it is coming and with every delay it will get bigger - you can't go spending more than you receive for too long"

You need to think a little more than that, I am afraid.

If expenditure exceeds income, this is clearly not a sustainable situation. But there are two possible reasons for expenditure to exceed income. In the first, expenditure is excessive. In the second revenue is insufficient.

The first reaction of Tories to any imbalance between expenditure and income is to cut expenditure. But, when your income is dependent on how much you spend and how you spend it, this is the worst thing that you could possibly do, as the Greeks found out.

There is, of course, a better solution, and that is to take whatever steps are necessary to maintain healthy income streams. And the way to do this, of course, is to temporarily increase public expenditure to compensate for the fall in private economic activity.

Imagine two factories, both producing the same stuff. One factory owner invests in technology which allows him to produce a higher quality product for the same price. The second factory owner experiences a fall in revenue as customers drift to the superior products.

If the second factory owner was Mr Swan, he would borrow some money, invest in better technology, and offer better products at the same price or cheaper, and stop the loss of revenue. The loan would soon be paid off by the extra income generated and, once this had happened, the extra income would stand as pure profit.

If the second factory owner was Mr Hockey, he would immediately start laying off workers, cutting production, reducing safety standards etc.

Which of the two do you thin would still be in business this time next year?

Simple fact is that you have to spend money to make money. Mr Swan understood this and, as a result, we still have the strongest economy in the world. Now Mr Hockey is placing us in danger of a Greek-style decline into unsustainable debt and years of economic pain. And the really galling thing is that the hard work had already been done by Mr Swan and all Mr Hockey had to do was to leave everything on cruise control.

Now a future Labor treasurer is going to be faced with a repair job that will eclipse even the task faced by Keating in rebuilding our shattered economy after another suburban solicitor (named J.W Howard) had run it into the ground with "austerity".

Wicked waste. That's the only way to describe it.

Malcolm,

"The real problem for the government is that their much vaunted budget emergency doesn't actually exists"

Actually, it is not quite as straightforward as it looks at first glance.

Have you ever heard of Schroedinger's Cat? If you haven't, I recommend that you look it up on your favorite search engine - very amusing story.

But the "budget emergency" is very similar to the mad scientist's unfortunate moggy in at least one important way: it can exist (or be alive) and not exist (be dead) simultaneously.

Here's how it works.

The MYEFO and PEFO are produced using a "model engine". The "model engine" is designed to mimic the economy. Into one end, you put a whole lot of "inputs". These include stuff like projections of international activity, projections of domestic activity and, most importantly, government fiscal and monetary policy settings. You then "turn the handle" and out pops your forecast.

When Treasury did this using a set of assumptions about domestic and international activity and the Labor government's counter-cyclical settings, the prediction was for the budget to return to surplus as part of the normal budget cycle but that, in the meantime, debt would PEAK at $340 billion. When Treasury ran the machine again, substituting Mr Hockey's pro-cyclical fiscal settings, but leaving everything lese the same, the result was starkly different, with debt peaking at a worrying $670 billion and the budget recovery seriously stalled, leading to the potential development of a "budget emergency".

In other words, the budget emergency that Mr Hockey's savage cuts are supposed to address, only exists if Mr Hockey makes the cuts.

I wouldn't mind so much if the budget was a cat. But its not, not even half the time.Frog,

"The peak debt has very little to do with the Liberals policy settings"

Peak debt is a function of two things: the size of the initial debt, and how long it takes before it begins to fall.

The major determining factor in how long it takes for a debt to peak and begin to decline is the revenue available to the government to pay off the principal and interest at regular intervals. If revenue is high, the government will have more at its disposal to invest in debt reduction. If revenue is low, the government will have less to invest in debt reduction. And government revenue is a function of economic activity. The higher the economic activity, the higher the government's revenue and the faster it can pay off debt.

Notice how I haven't mentioned expenditure? That's because, on this side of the equation, it is irrelevant. The only important thing is to ensure that economic activity remains at high enough levels to underwrite the debt repayment strategy of the government.

A few years back, the Australian economy faced its biggest challenge since the 1930's, which was the last time that neo-liberalism drove the world economy into depression. Mr Swan responded with a stimulus package that absorbed almost all of the shock and left Australian businesses and households in a hugely advantageous position compared to the rest of the world. This was reflected in continued high levels of economic activity and ensured that every dollar spent on the stimulus came back to the government at least twice. That's right, for every dollar spent on the Stimulus, the government has since received at least two dollars that it would not otherwise have received.

Mr Hockey's reversal of fiscal policy from counter-cyclical to pro-cyclical will, according to the "rules" programmed into the "model engine" (which are basically the widely accepted "rules" that govern how an economy works) considerably reduce economic activity and with it, government revenue. This is precisely the hole that the Greeks dug themselves into. If you aren't generating enough revenue to service your debts, your debt with continue to increase.

Get it now? You have to spend a bit to make a lot. If you scrimp a bit, you end up paying heaps more. Just ask the Greeks. They can tell you all about how much good "austerity" does.frog,

"what exact changes do you think Joe Hockey has made that are so disastrous?"

Still don't get it?

OK, I'll try to explain it again.

There are two types of fiscal response to a variation in economic activity: pro-cyclical and counter-cyclical. Now, you have to actually look at the words to figure out what they mean.

"Pro" means to move or work in the same direction. "Counter" means to move or work in a contrary direction. "Cyclical" refers to a system that experiences regular, or "cyclical" variation.

In terms of fiscal management, "pro-cyclical" means an intervention that promotes or reinforces a variation in economic activity, and "counter-cyclical" means an intervention that acts against, or "counter" to a variation in economic activity.

Classical economics, or "political economy" favours "counter-cyclical" intervention, and neo-classical, or "Chicago school" economics favours pro-cyclical intervention. Social-democratic parties like Labor follow the classical school of economics, Tory parties like the LNP follow the neo-liberal school.

The pro-cyclical approach to a negative variation in economic activity is what could now be called the "Greek response", but should probably be remembered as the "Hoover response" (he thought of it first, and started the Great Depression), is to cut public expenditure in an attempt to reduce that side of the budget sheet to match the other. See, the emphasis was on cutting costs, not boosting revenue.

The counter-cyclical approach to a negative variation (known as the "Keynesian" response) is to invest public money in the domestic economy, in ways that maintain or enhance domestic demand to compensate for falling international demand.

Mr Swan's response to the GFC was to adopt a traditional counter-cyclical response, investing in an immediate injection of cash into the consumer market and following up with a suite of infrastructure programs that boosted and maintained demand. As economic activity recovered, this response was scaled back, again in accordance with standard classical theory. See, the emphasis was on revenue generation, not expenditure reduction.

Since the last election, Mr Hockey's emphasis has been on cutting costs in order to make the expenditure side of the sheet match the revenue side. In other words, he has substituted a pro-cyclical approach for Mr Swan's counter-cyclical approach. As a result of this profound, polar shift, the MYEFO produced a much bleaker outlook than the PEFO.

Now it's getting close to my bed-time, so I hope that you understand now. This is getting tiring.aGuy,

"The projected debt was $650 billion for the ALP policies if they continued. "

Nice try, but no cigar, I am afraid.

The PEFO predicted a peak debt of $340 billion. This was the last forecast in which Treasury fed Labor's counter-cyclical settings into the model engine.

The MYEFO predicted a peak debt of $650 billion based on a continuation of all government programs, but substituting Mr Hockey's pro-cyclical settings for the previous governments counter-cyclical settings. This has since been revised upward to $670 billion, and this figure factors in added spending commitments made by the government since the election.

Whichever way you look at it, it is the fundamental change from the correct counter-cyclicam settings to the ideologically-driven pro-cyclical settings, that is responsible for the deterioration in the budget situation.

If Treasury ran the MYEFO engine again, but reinstated the counter-cyclical settings, the results would be much closer to the PEFO than the exisiting MYEFO.Mike,

"He looks to have stopped the drownings."

"Looks" is the operative word here. You actually have no idea whether there have been any drowings or not. Drownings, by their very nature, are "on water operations" and Mr Morrison has already said that he will not comment on "on water operations".

It is unlikely that there have been many drownings, as the peak season for boat arrivals is still quite a few months awy and, besides that changes that have really made the difference (no resettlement in Australia) were ALREADY in place before the election and were ALREADY having an effect on the number of boat arrivals.

And, even if Mr Morrison could take some credit for the current situation (which he can't), the solution at the moment is temporary. We cannot afford to maintain the incredible expenditure and the military resources in the long term. It will have to stop eventually and, unless a more workable and affordable solution is found, some future government will have the same problem as Mr Howard.

Of course the sustainable, permanent solution was proposed by the previous government: establish regional processing centres on the Asian mainland to intercept and assist asylum seekers BEFORE they get on boats. No risk of drowings, no future compensation bills for Naval personnel traumatised by being ordered to deny their fellow human beings their basic rights, no future PM standing up in parliamnet to apologise - just a just, fair and sustainable solution to a very real and very human problem.

Morrison did all that he could to make a permanent, sustainable and honourable solution impossible, and has irretrievably damaged Australia's reputation with his incompetence, pig-headedness and basic inhumanity.Mike,

"Scott Morrison is taking the heat he may as well accept the credit for the creditable, current solution."

The current situation is by no means "creditable". At best, it can be described as dark stain on our international reputation.

What Mr Morrison CAN take credit for, but for which he refuses to, is the brutal and avoidable murder of an innocent young man UNDER HIS CARE AND PROTECTION.

Mr Morrison needs to be held accountable for this crime.

But, more importantly, we need to move forward to a solution of which we can be genuinely proud. This solution was put forward by the experts panel convened by the previous government, but was blocked by Mr Abbott and his gang of goons, which featured Morrison as lead clown. The solution must be regional, and must involove processing centres on the Asian mainland to intercept people BEFORE THEY GET ON BOATS, and to offer them an alternative to the risky journey (something that Mr Morrison refuses to do).

The reduction in boat arrivals is mainly seasonal in nature, but certainly coincided with the introduction of a more punitive stance by the previous government - so Mr Morrison can harly take credit for this. As the "push" pressures increase (there are MILLIONS of GENUINE refugees in Syria, Turkey, Lebanon and Iran who have fled the current trouble in Iraq, but have not even started to look for resettlement yet) and seasonal conditions become more favourable, it is highly likely we will see more boat arrivals again.

We need a "creditable" solution for a number of reasons, First of all, our current stance is severely diminishing our standing as a nation and making it much more difficult for our diplomats to push for human rights improvements in countries that treat refugees far better than we. Secondly, it makes it very difficult for our business leaders to negotiate with their peers overseas when Australia is being seen increasingly as a traditionally racist country returning to the bad old days of the "White Australia Policy". Thirdly, we simply cannot afford to continue to keep a large chunk of our naval resources bobbing about off our north coast looking for little, leaky wooden boats. That is not what our naval ships are built for, and it is costing us an absolute fortune. Fourth, the whole "Operation Sovereign Borders" stunt is having a devastating effect on the mental and emotional health of those who are forced to put it into practice.

It doubt that it will be Morrison upon whom the responsibility falls to stand up and apologise on our behalf, for what is happening now. We need to come to our senses and remember what being Australian really means before this can happen.Brian,

"however to resurrect the Budget as 'still' as topical as it obviously was; is a bit desperate."

No resurrection required, I am afraid. The budget is a live issue because it has not been finalised yet, and normally a government would be well into the planning phase for next year's budget by now. This is an historic failure by the government. And historic failures by governments are normally considered to be worthy of wide reporting and comment.

Previous governments have faced problems getting particular measures included in a budget through the parliament and, in such cases they dropped the controversial measures and re-submitted measures that were more acceptable to the Senate. In other cases, governments have found it necessary to introduce mini-budgets in response to starkly changed economic conditions or some other large call on government resources like the outbreak of war.

But it appears that this government has simply stalled and given up and adopted a strategy of wrecking the economy so that they can blame Labor, Palmer and the Greens for the state of the economy. It is sort of the political equivalent of holding your breath until your face turns blue.

The thing that is really amusing about this is that Mr Abbott actually went to the electorate promising "adult government". I think that most people took this to mean "responsible, grown-up' behaviour from government. But he clearlydidn't mean that. Perhaps he meant adult as in 'x-rated'.

Can't wait for THAT Royal Commission!Septic,

"I guess I must have missed all the years that Labor balanced the budget."

The Menzies/Holt/Gorton/McMahon government ran for 23 years without once returning a surplus. The Fraser government also failed to achieve a surplus. In fact the first post-war surplus achieved by an Australian government was achieved by a Labor government (Hawke, with Keating as Treasurer).

Budget surpluses have been a very rare occurance in the western world over the past eighty years or so. The world learned its lesson after Hoover's obsession with balancing the budget plunged the world into the Great Depression and indirectly resulted in the loss of more than 100 million lives in WW2.

Economies are DYNAMIC ENTITIES. If you try to apply static measures to them, as do the "neoliberal" econo-shamans, you will get wrong answers. And thinking entirely in terms of surplus and deficit is the surest way to wreck an economy.

Swan got it right. He managed the economy and let the books keep themselves. Hockey has gotten it wrong by writing down figures in a book and then trying to force the economy to match them.

The REAL economy is out there on the farms, down the mines and in the factories and office blocks. It is not in ledger books and, while Mr Hockey's attention is fixed entirely on the balance sheet, the economy will continue to decline and the balance sheet will get progressively uglier.

The point of an economy is to satisfy human needs and wants, not to make attractive reading in a ledger. People eat food, not numbers.Colmery,

"Truth is not opinion. Presenting it as such is why science often gets ignored in political discourse."

Well, I think that it would be fairer to say that not all opinions are true. As a matter of fact, I think it is probably fair to say that most opinions are not true. But the truth cannot really be the truth until it is held as an opinion by at least one of us. And I think that I'd prefer to avoid a discussion on trees falling in forests just now, if you don't mind.

"Facts" are another matter. On their own, they are about as useful as wings on a mole. "Facts" are things that the truth explains. "Facts" are the things that raise the questions. It is the process of rational inquiry that leads the inquirer to opinions that faithfully represent the truth. Exactly the same "facts" can lead another person believe that a false opinion is a faithful representation of the truth, if they fail to apply sufficient rigour to the process of rational inquiry, or fall prey to the temptation of substituting arguments from authority for genuine inquiry. When this is done deliberately, as is Mr Abbott's habit (no pun intended), with the intention of leading others to see falsehood as the truth, it is known as "Sophistry".yank,

I think that there are a few different issues here, and it doesn't make a lot of sense to try to bunch them all in together.

The issue of electoral funding is an important one, but a lot more complicated than you seem to think. It deserves a much more thorough discussion than a short post could give it. Suffice to say that electoral funding is just one of many possible sources of corruption, and although I have nothing against greater public funding, I am under no illusion that this one reform would make a significant impact on corruption.

Even if we look at what has been revealed over the past couple of years (which is still just the tip of the iceberg) it is clear that not all the corruption has been associated with electoral donations. The allegations raised against Obeid, Rosendal, Tripodi and Kelly have nothing to do with electoral donations, or anything else to do with party activities. If the allegations are true, they were clearly acting as renegades, for personal gain without the knowledge of the party organisation. In these cases, it was more the "lobby" system that provided such fertile ground for corrupt behaviour.

And I personally think that the "lobby system" is a far more serious threat to democracy than electoral funding, not only because it casts a shadow over both sides of politics, but also because of the disparity in ministerial access that it creates between those who can afford lobbyists to act on their behalf, and the rest of us.

That said, there does appear to be a problem with electoral funding, and that problem seems to be centred within the Liberal Party itself. The simple fact that the Liberal Party has worked so hard to construct intricate and robust devices in order to shield the identity of their donors is enough of a concern in itself. After all, if the donations are not dodgy, what have they got to hide? The existence of the Liberal Party's money laundries is not allegation, they are legally registered entities that are known to exist, have web sites, email addresses, phone numbers and, for all I know, Facebook pages as well. The allegations currently being made in ICAC simply provide details of how these schemes worked.

I think that the question of how we should reform electoral funding deserves a lot more consideration, and my wife is frowning at me, so I'd better stop typing.Aquos,

"The liberals are being slowly eaten by ICAC and Labor can't say much about it without reminding people of their own party's sins."

Which sins are those?

You need to remember that NONE of the allegations raised so far in ICAC involve the Labor Party itself. The allegations against EX members of the Labor Party all relate to their actions as individual renegade members of the party and do not reflect in any way on the organisation itself, which appears in at least one case, to have been the victim of the alleged behaviour. The "sins" of former Labor party members were individual sins, committed for personal gain, not to advance the electoral fortunes of their former party.

So the Labor Party should not feel shy about commenting on the allegations of SYSTEMIC corruption WITHIN the Liberal Party organisation itself. These allegations, if proven, reveal a pattern of organisational behaviour specifically intended to  subvert laws designed to regulate the behaviour of political parties.

If the allegations are true, the Labor Party (and the people of NSW) was the VICTIM of betrayal by a few renegade members. These former members appear to have several cases to answer. But, if the allegations are true, the Liberal Party itself, not just a few renegades, is directly implicated in serious criminal behaviour.

Sometimes even pots and kettles have shades of grey.The Other,

" but lets face it Quentin, where were you in the 15 years that such corruption was allowed to flourish in NSW under the Labor government? "

What??

Who do you think was responsible for exposing the renegade Labor Party members in the first place. It was Quentin's (among others) relentless pursuit of the story that led the Labor Government to refer the allegations to ICAC. Of course, had you watched his many reports on the 7:30 report and Stateline, you would know this. The fact that you are prepared to throw these allegations with absolutely no idea of whether they are true or not does not say much for your arguments.

We should be very grateful to Quentin. Not only was he instrumental in helping the Labor Party to clear out a few renegade members who had betrayed both their party and their constituents but, much more importantly, we are starting to learn where the real political corruption lies: at the heart of the Liberal Party organisation itself. The investigative journalism of Quentin and his colleagues from the ABC and the SMH has provided us with the opportunity that we needed to clean up politics and bring the curtain down for the last time on the Rum Corps/UAP/Liberal Party and their corrupting influence on Australian politics.

Three cheers for Quentin and the ABC!Mark,

"A leader has to lead by example. "

Yes, I agree. But how, exactly does this apply to Mr Abbott?

A leader is someone who people follow by choice. It is difficult to think of a better example of the true qualities of leadership than Nelson Mandela - except perhaps the Dalai Lama or Che Guevara. People followed them largely because they became the personification of a great cause. It was not all about them as people - it was the worthiness of their cause and their ability to put themselves second to the cause that inspired people. Chavez in Venzuela is another good example.

Unfortunately, this is not how tories see leadership. In their vision of leadership, it is all about gaining and keeping power regardless of the cause.

When Mr Abbott talks about "Team Australia" he is not talking about the team that he belongs to, but the team that belongs to him - like a team of bullocks or huskies. The "Team" does the work, the owner gets the rewards.Alex,

"Have you heard the saying, one man's terrorist is another man's freedom fighter?"

Yes I have. It is not relevant to the question of leadership, which is what we are discussing in this thread, but it is an interesting concept nonetheless.

George Washington, Paul Revere, Benjamin Franklin, John Hancock and their fellow "freedom fighters" who rose up against British tyrrany and established the first liberal-democratic society were considered to be "terrorists" by the British.

The communist French Resistance are widley condisered to be heroes thesedays, but were viewed as terrorists by the Germans.

The Jewish community in pre-WW2 Germany was considered by the government and people as a terrorist threat, and Hitler's invasion of Poland was initially described as a "war on terrorism".

In Ukraine at the moment, seperatist rebels are seen as terrorists by the Ukraine government, while the Russians accuse the Ukrainian government of terrorism.

"Terrorism" used to mean something, but it has lost meaning thanks to its deliberate mis-use at the hands of right-wing politicians and media barons. Now it is simply a weasel word and anybody who uses it, as you have, as a substitute for rational argument, immediately brands themselves as a humbug.

But, as I said. This thread is about leadership, and that's what I was talking about. You don't have to agree with someone's politics to recognise their leadership ability. Leadership in itself is just a skill. It says nothing about the moral character of the leader.mike,

"John, like Al Qaeda ISIS themselves say their motives are all about Islam "

The Lord's Resistance Army say that its motives are all about Christianity. In Australia, Tories call themselves "Liberal". In China, the fascist government calls itself "communist". In the First World War, the opposing empires both claimed to have the same God behind them.

Just because somebody says something, you don't have to believe them.Mike,

"When ISIS fighters invade a town and tell the non-Muslim population to convert to Islam or die, their motives are pretty clear."

I agree, their motives are to kill infidels, which is in direct contradiction of one of the central tenets of Islam: that the faithful should not molest or interfere with infidels, as it is Allah's job to judge them.

So their motive are clear, and their motives are clearly anti-Islamic. If they really were Muslims they would realise that their current behaviour is a sure ticket to eternal damnation.mike,

"Hugo Chavez was a pathological narcissist obsessed with power." Chavez was the epitome of leadership. Despite an enormous propaganda campaign against him by the oil cartels, the US State department, and local plutocrats who controlled the news media, the Venezuelan people continued to support the revolution he began. And it was not just the Venezuelan people who were impressed with his leadership. Several Latin American nations have joined the Bolivarian project and their people are starting to experience the benefits. The world poverty rate is falling, despite it continuing to rise in five of six inhabited continent. The fall in poverty in Latin America is a direct result of the Bolivarian project, and is so profound that it outweighs the continuing growth in poverty in the rest of the world.

You see, the people of Latin America have one advantage over either of us when it comes to judging Hugo Chavez: they live there, and have personal experience of the difference to their lives made by having access to a health system, education, housing and all the things that they were denied by monopoly capitalism. The Venezuelan people repeatedly rejected attempts to overturn their democratic decision to change course and opt for socialism. If you asked the fishermen of the Caribbean coast, whose fisheries are now protected from foreign factory harvesters, whether they agreed with your assessment of Chavez, I expect that the answer would be unanimous and vehement. All you can do is swallow the propaganda fed to you by Murdoch. They can actually see what is happening, which is why they followed Chavez and continue to support the revolution he started.AE,

If the Venezuelan people were dissatisfied with the changes made under Chavez, they have had plenty of opportunities to return to their previous state by electing an opposition candidate. Each time they have been forced to the polls by US interference, they have emphatically rejected the intervention and re-affirmed their choice to continue their revolution. As I said before, they are in a much better position to judge, and we should respect their DEMOCRATIC decision.

As for things like inflation and unemployment, well, it is true that Venezuela's economy is still predominantly capitalist in nature and, as such, is still prone to the symptoms of capitalist instability. The solution, of course it to replace this defective system with one in which inflation, unemployment, homelessness and the other evils of capitalism are impossible. And that is precisely what the Venezuelan people have decided to do.

Had Chavez simply been a power-crazed lunatic, he could have had a much easier route to the top simply by staying in the Army and acting as a stooge for the US State Department like his predecessors. The route he chose exposed him to assassination attempts and constant interference from the US, as well as a furious and highly personal propaganda from the monopoly-controlled domestic press.

If he were simply a megalomaniac, why would he choose the most difficult route possible to the top job?china,

When Abbott talks about "Team Australia" he is referring to us - all of us - but not him. He does not see himself as being part of "Team Australia".

It's all about the sense in which the word "team" is used. In this case, what we are looking at is the use of teh word "team" in the same way that a bullocky would use it. When referring to his "team", he is referring to his bullocks, not his fellow bullockies.

This is how tories see the world. They sit in the dray and crack the whip, we do the "lifting". And, at the end of the day, they bask in the achievements of their "team".

You need to remember that tory political rhetoric is entirely dependent on the use of weasel words like "team". The weasel word can have positive or negative connotations. If you don't like the government selling permits to emit carbon, you call it a "carbon tax". If you don't wan't legislation that allows poker machine users to be able to limit the amount they spend, call it a "pokie tax". If you want workers to accept an unsafe workplace, longer hours or lower wages, you call it a "productivity tradeoff". If you want to bulldoze a forest for a housing estate, you call it "progress". The simple rule is NEVER accept what a tory tells you at face value. ALWAYS look for the real meaning beneath the weasel words.

REAL teamwork (the kind that comes naturally to people who organise and cooperate - like unions) requires give and take on all sides. The type of "teamwork" Abbott is talking about involves give and take as well: we give, and he takes.aGuy,

"cant be bold enough to call a party by its actual name"

The party in question is a CONSERVATIVE party and, as such, its agenda is entirely contradictory to the philosophy of liberalism. It is simply a rebranding of the United Australia Party which, conicidentally, destroyed itself under the incomeptent and corrupt leadership of Robert Menzies, who then fled the country. The cause of the demise of the first Tory party was, you guessed it, influence peddling and ministerial "favours for electoral donations". Ring any bells?

We DO have a liberal party in Australia, but it is not called the "Liberal Party" - it is called "The Greens". But the party that has appropriated the name "Liberal" for its own is a fierce opponent of liberal values and a staunch supporter of corporate privilege, Britain's feudal aristocracy, and the predatory behaviour of international capital.

But it is not just the word "liberal" that is fraudulently used in the title "Liberal Party". The word "party" is also an embellishment. Political parties promote a vision for the future of society (not just the budget). They are defined by what they stand for. The "Liberal Party" was formed, according to its founder "to oppose the Labor Party" and, in his inaugral speech as the leader of the new party, Menzies described it as "a coalition of anti-Labor forces in Australian politics".

If the Tories were "bold" enough to tetll the truth and choose a name that reflects their true nature and agenda, I would be happy to call them by their chosen name. But, while they continue to appropriate the name of a fine and noble ideology in order to conceal their true nature and agenda, all thinking Australians will continue to call them for what they are - Tories.aka Alias,

"China, there is only one thing that "binds us" and that is we are all homo sapiens."

That's right. We can label ourselves however we like, identify with tribes of various kinds of groups but, at the end of the day, we are all descended from a very small group of people who survived a cataclysmic volcanic eruption in SE Asia about 70,000 years ago. 

I personally cringe with embarrassment when I hear people talking about "uniquely Australian values" like "mateship" (loyalty to one's friends), innovation, self deprecation and egalitarianism - especially when these are spouted by someone like John Howard or Tony Abbott, who have spent their whole lives fighting against mateship, innovation and egalitarianism, and who fear and dread the new.

The more you travel, the more you realise that humans are humans, regardless of their skin colour, language, accent, religion, shoe size, sexual orientation or political beliefs. Australians are no cleverer than Belgians, no more hospitable than Kenyans. We simply live in a place that, for the last hundred and fifty years, has been called Australia.Jones Crusher,

"Radical ANYTHING poses a threat to EVERYBODY!"

The Parrot would be proud of you.

"Radical" is derived from an ancient Greek word (radix), which means "root". It refers to a method of inquiry which begins at the "root" of a problem, and proceeds toward an answer in a rational manner. It's opposite is called "reactionary" thinking, in which only the outer surface of a problem (how it affects me) is relevant and the logic is "reverse engineered" to fit the desired answer. Radical thought forms the basis of left-wing ideology. Reactionary thought is the basis of right-wing ideology. (This is what "left-wing" and "right-wing" actually mean).

Our modern society is the product of radicalism - our science, our technology, our understanding of the natural world, our medicine, all result from a radical examination of the world around us.

I suspect that you are making the common mistake of equating "radical" with "extreme" or "militant". This is a very, very silly mistake to make because it makes you vulnerable to all sorts of misonceptions. It is the sort of thick-headedness that lets The Parrot get away with his vile propagandising in the first place.

If you knew how offensive it was to genuine radicals like myself, who have devoted their lives to rational inquiry, to be told that they are a threat to EVERYONE, I am sure you would be more careful in future. There is no excuse for being slack with our language.Jones,

For future reference, if you wish to quote a statement that contains words or sentiments that you do not agree with or consider to be wrong, you can indicate this by prefacing the offending words with '[sic]'. This makes it quite clear that you are not endorsing the error.

As you simply quoted the statement uncritically, it was perfectly reasonable to assume that you had no issue with the mis-use of the word.

As I said before, there is no excuse for sloppy language. Many lives have been lost through"innocent" slips of the tongue.Jones,

" you seem to be implying that I have murderous intent "

Now you really are starting to sound like The Parrot.

I suppose that, if you tried hard enough, you could interpret my words in many different ways. But what would be the point? My meaning was quite clear and it seems like a waste of energy to go out of your way to misinterpret them as you have.

"Radical" has a specific meaning, which has nothing to do with the meaning that you attached to it.

And the simple fact is that the sloppy use of words DOES cost lives.

I grew up in the 1960's, when you could destroy a person's life simply by calling them a "communist". Very few people actually knew what "communism" is (something that hasn't really changed) but, if you were accused of being a communist, you could find yourself suddenly unemployable, your phone calls tapped, your house under surveillance and your life destroyed. It drove some to suicide and slowly wore down others. And I am not simply repeating a story that I have heard here, I am talking from personal experience. I watched the effect on friends and their families.

Just as a general ignorance of the real meaning of the word "communism" made it easy for the Macarthyist Menzies government to hoodwink the people and destroy their critics, the misuse of the word "radical" is simply doing the work of populist propagandists like your namesake. It is up to sensible, responsible people to challenge such sloppiness and laziness whenever it arises.

There are plenty of words that you could have used without being offensive. "Extreme", "militant", "fanatical" are all far more accurate descriptions of fundamentalist Islamism - which is a very different thing to Islam. "Radical" refers to a type of philosophical inquiry that forms the foundation of modern science, engineering, medicine, mathematics....all the "rational" disciplines. Fundamentalist Islam is the product of "reactionary" thinking, which provides the foundation conservative and authoritarian ideologies, and is the exact opposite of "radical" inquiry.Peter,

Multiculturalism saved Australia from bankruptcy and obscurity.

Anyone who remembers the cultural and economic wasteland left behind by 23 years of Mingist isolationism will understand what I am talking about.

Multiculturalism has done its best to reinvigorate our business sector, which had grown fat and lazy under years of Tory protectionism. Unfortunately, although it has achieved a major rejuvination, we are still lumbered by the least innovative, most coddled, most risk-averse business sector in the world.

It was Whitlam who began the task of opening up Australia. While the Tories were still in shock after being dumped by "Mother England" when she joined the Common Market, it was Whitlam (and the great Al Grasby), who embraced the various ethnic communities and engaged with China and South-East Asia. Had it been left to the Tories, our trade efforts would still be limited to trying to convince the British or buy our butter.
 
Unfortunately, when you have enough racist low-lives in a community, minority communities tend to stick more and more to themselves and you run the risk of US-style ghettoism. Mutliculturalism depends on adult behaviour from everyone. It is very vulnerable to populist tactics like those employed by John Howard to undermine social cohesion and, over the past ten years or so, this has led many minorities to begin to retreat more and more into their own communities and engage less with the wider community.

Multiculturalism is our greatest protection against terrorism and social dissolution that we could possibly have. It is very difficult to see the people with whom you work and live every day as your enemies. Pick on minorities as the Tories do, and you drive them into ghettos from where it is easy to believe that everybody is your enemy.

Anyone opposing multiculturalism is simply doing the terrorists' work for them.neil,

"Islam is by it's own tenets a radical no compromise form of Judaism."

No religion can rightly call itself "radical". Religions (with the exception of some forms of Buddhism) are inherently authority-based and therefore the antithesis of radical thought.

In Islam, a thing is true because God says that it is true. In radical thought, a thing is true because it has been proven to be true via a process of rational inquiry. See the difference? It's a rather important one.

In general, it appears that Moslems are strincter in their observance of the strictures of their religion. Islamic nations outlaw the practice of usury, which is also considered a deadly sin by Christian tradition, but to which the Church doesn't just turn a blind eye, but willingly participates in usury. Islamic countries generally do not have laws protecting "intellectual property" because this is also considered to be wrong under Islam.

The fundamental principle of Islam is that of submission to the will of God. While this, in itself is entirely contradictory to the idea of radicalism, a "radical" Moslem could be said to be one who bases their religious ideas and personal moral code on this fundamental principle.

Interestingly, another fundamental principle of Islam (not shared by Christianity or Judaism), is the injunction in the first verse of the Koran for Moslems NOT to interfere with or judge "infidels" (people other than the "People of the Book" (Jews, Christians and Moslems)). This is one that fundamentalist Moslems choose to ignore, and is a good demonstration of the difference between fundamentalism and radicalsim. A radical moslem would not harm an infidel because tolerance of infidels is a core principle of Islam. But a fundamentalist moslem would ignore this injunction because it conflicts with their extreme interpretation of another verse that fits more closely with their craziness.Rinaldo,

"I agree that radical Islam poses a threat to Australia."

You are confusing radical Islam with extremist Islamism, which has nothing to do with Islam.

Radical Islam is no threat to anyone. Radical simply means "from the root", and a radical Moslem is one who follows the words of the Prophet, submits him or herself to Allah, and closes his or her ears to the rantings of Wahabbist heretics.

Radicalism is a philosophical school that began with the ancient Greeks, and has underpinned the development of science, technology and philosophy ever since. Science is inherently radical, as is mathematics, cosmology and every other scientific discipline.

Islamist (not Islamic) extemists are neither Moslems nor radicals - in fact, they are the opposite of radicals - they are REACTIONARY CONSERVATIVES whose basic views and psychology shares more in common with George Bush, Margaret Thatcher, Tony Abbott and John Howard than it does with any radical who has ever breathed our atmosphere.

"Radicalism" is the foundation of "rationalism". Without a radical approach, rationality is rendered meaningless.McFurphy,

"minimum 'living tax-free threshold' of say $35k/yr "

I think that the thing to do is to tie the tax-free-threshold to a statutory "cost of living" figure which, at the moment, would probably come in at around the $35-40K mark.

This would certainly level the playing field somewhat, by giving human citizens some of the privileges enjoyed by corporations, who only have to pay tax on their NET income while we currently pay tax on our GROSS income.

But this should not be done only if the GST is expanded to do more damage than it already has - it should be a priority measure and, if implemented properly, could do away with the need to have a GST at all.

The GST was introduced with two stated intentions: to provide the states with a sustainable funding model, and to eliminate the "black economy". Well, the states haven't stopped complaining since the GST was introduced. They have been chronically strapped for cash, the services they are able to offer their citizens have diminshed considerably, and now Mr Abbott is talking about letting them impose their own income taxes! And the black economy, far from being eliminated, has gone from strength to strength. I am currently renovating my house. I have yet to have a tradesman do work on my house without offering me a discount for cash. A practice that was once confined to a few dodgey contractors has become universal under the GST, simply because the rewards are so much greater and anyone not doing it places themselves at a competitive disadvantage.

So, considering that the GST has failed to achieve either of its stated aims, we should definitely be looking at getting rid of it and replacing it with a genuine PROGRESSIVE tax.lollipop,

"tradesmen dont do cash jobs to avoid GST, they do them to avoid income tax. they generally dont pay GST, the consumer does."

The "black economy" does not distinguish between taxes.

When a tradesman does a job, he incurs a liablity to pay GST equivalent to the value of the job REGARDLESS OF WHETHER HE CHARGES OR NOT. The tax is on the SERVICE, not the exchange of money. If the total value of the job is $400 the tradesman can pass on the GST and charge you $440, in which case he makes $400. If, however, he gives you a "cash discount" and drops the price to $420, you have saved $20 and the tradesman has earned $20 more than he or she would if they had paid GST.

But this is beside the point. Howard promised that the GST would destroy the "black economy" and the opposite has happened - the "black economy" is thriving and involves more trades and professions than ever. In other words, the GST is a failure and should be replaced with something that works.WA,

"That's not true, a corporation pays tax on it's gross operating profit"

In other words, NET INCOME (ie: what is left out of GROSS REVENUE after OPERATING COSTS have been deducted.)

Now, in a free market, net income = profit. But we don't have a free market, we have a heavily monopolised late capitalist market, and monopoly power allows corporations to push their net income way above the actual profits made. The gap between real profit and actual net income is called "super-profit" and this is what really needs to be taxed heavily.

Now, to human beings. Human beings produce a thing called "human labour power", and they do this by living their lives. Thus the "cost of living" is the same thing for a human being as "operating costs" for a corporation. At the  moment, corporations are taxed on NET income while human citizens are taxed on GROSS income.

But the plot thickens. Corporate income is a COST to society. It is the price we pay for access to the means of production. We need access to the means of production in order to generate wealth with our labour power. Wages, salaries and what the government spends on providing services for us, managing our economy and keeping us safe and secure are RETURNS to society from the economy. And, as you know, economic efficiency is a measure of what we get back from the operation of our economy, as a function of what we pay in the form of "economic rent" (profits, dividends, rent and interest).

Forty years ago, it economic rent cost roughly 15% of gross national income. Now, economic rent is nudging 30% of gross national income. In simple terms, this means that,. for every dollar of wealth we produce with our labour power, 85c was returned to us 40 years ago, and now it is just 70c. This is why individuals are finding it increasingly difficult to make ends meet, and why governments struggle to balance budgets while maintaining services at acceptable levels.

We need to limit economic rent in order to restore efficiency to our economy, and one of the best ways of doing this is through the taxation system. The other thing we need to do is to bust up the monopolies. This was crucial to the recovery of the world economy after the last depression (google "U.S trust-busting legislation" to find out more) and it is just as vital today.

But that's another story.yank,

"How can we take politicking out of politics?"

English is a funny language. There are plenty of words that have different meanings that are dependent on the context in which they are used. "Politics" is a good example.

Every time we see another human being and that other human being sees us, politics has happened. We may not even be aware of it, but we have sent a number of signals to the stranger about whether or not we should be regarded as a friend or enemy, and we are also unconsciously evaluating the same questions based on signals sent to us by the stranger. This is politics at its most fundamental level.

So, when someone is accused of "politicising" an issue, we are clearly not talking about this fundamental type of politics, because that is a given. You cannot "politicise" something which is fundamentally political, and all interactions between humans are fundamentally political.

I think that when people say "politicise" they are referring more to the tribalism of the two-party system, in which people decide on which policy to support largely on the basis of which party proposed it. A good example of this is Paid Parental Leave, which was fiercely opposed by the Tories and, in consequence, by their supporters in the press. Mr Abbott even went so far as to say that PPL would be introduced "over my dead body" (we have PPL, Abbott is still alive - another broken promise!). But, when Mr Abbott has a "Road to Damascus" conversion to the cause of paid parental leave and promises to replace the current fair, functional and affordable system with a clunky, unworkable and unaffordable system, suddenly Tory voters are 100% behind this "vital economic reform". It is difficult to imagine a better illustration of political tribalism.

The only way in which you can stop politics from happening is to give every single human being their own planet and ban space travel. But we can stop political tribalism simply by growing up.Voyage,

"Can John Hewson and Saul Eslake be on the Tax Commission?"

What would be the point of that? We would just end up with more of the same.

We need a RADICAL examination of the tax system, and that means starting right at the beginning, with the fundamental questions being answered before any "flesh" is put on the bones.

The problem with the numerous tax revues and summits that we have endured in the past is that they always start with a fait acompli, rather than approaching the problem as a "tabula rasa" (blank slate).

Think of it this way. The cars we drive are fundmantally the same as the first cars ever designed because they are the product of a long, incremental process of development. If we were to undertake to solve the problem of building an efficient personal transport device now, with no prior knowledge of car design, would our answer look anything like a car? I suspect that the only way of finding this out would be to go through the exercies and see what happens.

Our tax system is similar, except that taxes have been around for longer than cars. It is the result of centuries of incremental change with no planning or real understanding of what we are taxing or why.

We need a fresh approach, and I suggest that the best way of achieving this is to keep the economists and politicians out of it, and get all parties to commit to adopting the findings of a radical system review in which ALL options are on the table and NOTHING is ruled out.Peter,

"we could just hive off all government to 'independent' commissions to take out 'the politics.' "

This is pretty much how government has worked for hundreds of years.

Politicians do the "broad brush" stuff. They push the ideas, propose policies, get elected, and meet the real government.

Government in liberal democracies is sort of like a bus. Buses are very clever things. By turning the steering wheel, the driver can alter the direction in which the bus travels and by working the pedals he or she can control the speed. But buses cannot go wherever they like, which means that the bus driver cannot drive wherever he or she likes. They have to stick to the roads and, in the case of scheduled services, have to stick to a route. If the passengers in the bus were entitled to vote for their destination, the bus driver would still have to navigate to the destination along the roads that already exist.

Most of the work of government is done by the Public Service. And this includes policy work - even tax policy.

My personal preference would be to get the politicians and economists out of the equation and turn the whole problem over to systems theorists who can examine the whole issue in a radical manner and design a new system from scratch.

Our current tax system has grown like Sydney. What we really need is a system that is planned like Canberra.AE,

"Fair point, but you get to pass judgement at the next election."

Here's a suggestion. Copy this sentence into a text file and save it to your hard drive. You will be able to use it after the next election and it will still be just as true.AE,

"I'm not sure what a freedom troll is exactly"

A "freedom troll" is a troll who can come out from under its bridge in daylight hours.

I am yet to be convinced that they exist.graazt,

"No taxation without representation"

This is one of the fundamental principles of Liberal Democracy, and it is wise to remember it from time to time.

To be consistent with this principle, we would have to exempt all those under the age of 18 from liability to pay income tax, or lower the voting age somewhat. I have no great objection to either idea, but I fear that a tax exemption for under-18 year-olds could result in 17 year-olds earning mega-bucks in their parents' businesses while the businesses run at a loss or low profit.

One other thing must be remembered: the principle applies to HUMAN BEINGS, not to non-human entities like corporations, unions, churches etc. At the moment, one of the greatest crimes against democracy ever committed in Australia is being perpetrated against the residents of the City of Sydney, where businesess have not just been given the right to vote in council elections, but each of their votes is worth the votes of two citizens.

Of course, this has nothing to do with democracy or justice. It is all about getting rid of the hugely popular elected mayor and replacing her with a business stooge.AE,

"but economic freedom is necessary if you're social freedoms "

"Economic freedom" has one requirement and one requirement only: a complete absence of any means of coercive force in the economy. In other words, "economic freedom" is impossible in any economic system in which control over what is produced, when it is produced, how it is produced, where it is produced, how much is produced and why it is produced, is vested in a small group of entities (be they corporate or human). "Economic freedom" is only possible in a mature society and economic system in which all forms of coercive power have whithered away.

So, if there are such things as bosses and employees, there is no possibility of "economic freedom". If, however, the means of production are owned and controlled collectively by the whole society, "economic freedom" becomes possible.

I suspect that you are getting a little less comfortable with the idea of "economic freedom" by the minute. Yes, that's right, "economic freedom" is what Marx was talking about when he was talking about communism. There is a beautiful passage in "The German Ideology" where Marx gives a description of what it may be like to live in communist society and, if you are looking for a description of what "economic freedom" would look like, you will find it in this passage.

Sorry to dissappoint you, but that's what "economic freedom" means. What you are talking about is the "law of the jungle", which is where and why society originated, not where it is going.AE

"I'm not sure that the former Soviet Union was big on letting its citizens pass judgemenst on the economy (or anything else)."

Well, I thought that you may recoil from the idea of economic freedom when you found out what it means, but I am a little disappointed that you have resorted to this hoary old chestnut as your best defence.

In 1917, the Bolsheviks seized power in Russia. At the time, Russia was a crumbling feudal empire beset by recurrent famines, epidemics, anti-Semitic pogroms and crippling poverty, and in which adult literacy was not just appallingly low (around 5%), but actively discouraged for all but the aristocracy. For a fuller account of conditions in pre-revolutionary Russia, I suggest that you read Maxim Gorky's excellent autobiographical trilogy: "My Childhood", 
My Apprenticeship" and "My Universities".

The approach of the new Bolshevik administration was to leap-frog right over the capitalist development phase and to attempt to establish the necessary conditions for the emergence of a communist society through a deliberate process of socialist development. They never claimed that they had established communism - this was always seen as the long-term goal toward which they were working - a project spanning centuries, not seconds.
You've probably read me counselling against mistaking the map for the territory before. But it is equally important not to mistake the route for the destination. Socialist revolutions do not aim to produce an instant transformation into a fully mature civil society and the "pointy end" - regardless of whether it is the result of a democratic transfer of power, coup, putsch, civil war, is just the start of the revolution, not the end.

A mature civil society (communism, economic freedom, anarchy, democracy - call it what you will) is something that we should all be striving for. There is still plenty of room for debate about how to get there, but until we can agree on a destination we are simply going round in circles.AE,

"but still, the citizen never got to pass judgement, did he or she?"

Which citizen are you talking about, and what does "passing judgement" have to do with economic freedom anyway?

Economic freedom is the lack of constraint over participants in the economy. Constraints come in many forms, and include such things as a fear of homelessness, personal indebtedness, lack of access to educational services, lack of access to heathcare. If it is possible for you to be homeless, if you are tied to a mortgage, if you cannot afford healthcare or education, you have no economic freedom. Our system does not guarantee full employment (in fact it cannot tolerate full employment), it does not guarantee security of tenure in accommodation (your bank or landlord holds coercive power over you), it does not guarantee access to educational services and it does not guarantee access to medical care.

The Soviet system DID guarantee these things and, as a result, Soviet citizens enjoyed a far higher level of economic or "practical" freedom than we do. AND they got to vote for their representatives and had the right of recall, just as we do. Their system was a little different, but no more or less "democratic". If you had ever studied history in a scholraly manner, you would know this. But it appears that you have gotten your information mostly from the tired and hackeyed truisms of popular culture. You can't learn much about history and society from the back of a cereal box, or from the "telly", I am afraid.Pom,

"I'm not a great fan of GST on food, but when I see queues going into fast food joints, it kind of destroys my argument."

I'm not sure how. Fast food is not currently exempt from the GST. Only fresh food is exempt. People's decisions on whether to cook at home or eat out are not governed by whether or not GST is charged, but by other factors, primarily convenience.

But the question of whether or not food and books should be exempt is irrelevant anyway. The GST is a bad tax that has completely failed to achieve its two principal stated objectives (to provide the states with a permanent, sustainable source of funding, and to eliminate the "black economy"). unfortunately it has been an unqualified success in its principal unstated objective: to shift the cost burden of society from those who can afford it to those who cannot.

Thanks to the GST, foreign corporations find it easier to make big profits in Australia, and to expatriate these profits to overseas shareholders.

Thanks to the GST, Australia's richest citizens pay considerably less tax. Thanks to the GST it is more profitable to "invest" in idle real-estate speculation than in productive enterprise.

We need a better way, and the way to achieve this is to start from scratch, with no assumptions, and work our way up from there.

We should be looking at addressing a ridiculous anomaly that allows corporations to subtract their running costs from taxable income, but human citizens are taxed on their ENTIRE income INCLUDING their "running costs" (the cost of living).

There are two ways of addressing this. The first would be to impose a flat tax of say 15% on gross corporate revenue, leave personal income tax pretty much as it is, and ablolish the GST. The second would be to leave corporate tax as it is, but tie the tax-free threshold for human citizens to a statutory "cost of living" which, on my estimation, would probably be around the $35 - $45 K mark aty present, and the lowest step on the progression scale being tied to twice the statutory "cost of living" (ie: if you earn between the "cost of living" and twice the "cost of living", you would pay the lowest rate of tax. The cost of this could be partially offset by a "steepening" of the progression of tax rates so that, by the time you earn 20 times the "cost of living", you are paying the top marginal rate.Pom,

"The fact that so many low income people buy fast food destroys my argument."

So you keep saying, but it doesn't really.

People on low incomes often eat more fast food than others simply because their lifestyles (dictated by working increasingly long hours, often a long way from home) don't give them time to actually prepare proper meals.

Years ago I did a research project for the NSW Education Commission and we looked at questions such as this in some detail. The question was whether or not there was anything that the education system (primarily TAFE outreach projects) could do to improve the dietary habits of socially disadvantaged people. We found that there was generally a good awareness of basic nutrition and its importance, but that the biggest impediment was lifestyle considerations that were imposed by working arrangements or a lack of access to basic cooking and food storage facilities. Of course, the poorest and most disadvantaged of all (homeless people) have no choice but to survive on fast food.

The fact that GST applies to fast food and processed foods, but not to fresh food could be seen as a positive incentive encouraging people to eat healthier meals and to prepare more food at home. But this would only work if those targetted were in a position to take advantage of such an incentive.

The GST should not apply to anything. It is a horribly inefficient, regressive tax that has had disastrous consequences for our economy and has failed to achieve either of its stated objectives. It shouldbe replaced by a regime of super-profit taxes aimed at producing a leaner, more efficient corporate sector.puppet,

" I wonder what he would say about Australia in 50 years time."

That depends largely on us and our courage and commitment to the values of democracy and the future of our nation.

If we succeed in building a democratic, independent nation that is confident enough to stand on its own two feet, and in which every citizen is free to become the best human being that they can be, I am sure that he would be very, very proud.

As I said, it is up to us to deserve his legacy.

I am just very, very grateful to have lived for fifty years in the same universe as such a truly great man.Sir Robert,

"No Conservative leader in this nation has come close to achieving a better nation"

Well this is hardly surprising. All Labor leaders see their time in government as a nation-building exercise. By contrast, the Liberal Party was founded in order to prevent Australia from becoming a nation and maintain it as a compliant and inexpensive source of minerals, agricultural products and cannon fodder to whatever "great and powerful friend" they can find to sponsor them.

When Gough came to power, the only recourse an Australian citizen had against unjust decisions by our courts was to get on a boat to England and make an appeal to the Privy Council. Australians were not allowed to read the works of James Joyce and DH Lawrence. Young Australian men could be forced to abandon their studies or careers to fight on behalf of the United States in the jungles of Vietnam. Australia had no flag, no anthem, and we were expected to stand in cinemas for the English national anthem.

I think that we are a long way from being able to call ourselves a nation. Under Labor governments we are a country working to become a nation, Under Tory governments, we revert to colonial status.

One day we will become a nation, and a lot of people will have contributed to our success. But it will always be Gough who started us on our journey.
Valerie,

I still remember the day that Gough visited our school. I was in second form (year 8) then, and my school was just approaching its 60th anniversary. The facilities that we used were the same facilities installed when it was built - that was the year before the outbreak of WW1.

I can also remember being allowed to stay up late on election night 1972 to watch a truly historic event, and being inspired. Politics had always been, in my mind, a bunch of old blokes fiddling the books. In Gough Whitlam I saw what politics could be, how it could help people, build nations and solve seemingly impossible problems.

And I remember November 11 1975. We were about to begin rehearsals for our production of 'Hamlet' in our new school hall - constructed as part of Whitlam's school upgrade programme (we also got new playing fields, basketball courts that you could play on without breaking an ankle, a new library building that didn't leak when it rained, and a new science block with modern laboratories). I had just come from a history class in which we had watched an episode of "The World at War" - recorded on the latest technological marvel: a video tape recorder (paid for by Whitlam's programme) by a teachers' aide (also paid for by Whitlam's reforms).

Our English Master came in, visibly upset, told us what had happened, and cancelled the rehearsal. We were all too shocked and horrified to rehearse that day.

Gough showed us that Australia was as good as any nation, and Australians could do anything that they set out to do. We have not always lived up to this vision, and it is sad that Gough left us while we are at our lowest ebb in terms of national character.

Now that he is gone, it is up to us to try harder, and to become the nation that he knew we could become.JessC,

Wong, Shorten, Albanese, Plibersek.....there are a few who fit the bill.

It is easy to see things in the past as being rosier than they actually were. When Gough was in power, the press coverage was almost as toxic as it is now. They were prepared to concede that Chifley and Curtin were great leaders, but portrayed Gough as a lightweight.

It is only in retrospect that we see the true greatness of our leaders.rb,

It takes a very small mind to think that small.Alpo,

"don't forget: first and above all it's the philosophy and the political program that matter."

That's right - what the Tories scornfully label "ideology" - as if it were a dirty word. But a party without ideology is like a train without rails.

The way in which the leader of a party is elected is a matter for the party. I don't care if they draw lots, provided that the PARTY has a strong and coherent programme of reform to place before the Australian people.

We place too much emphasis on the leadership of parties and way too little on what they stand for. As a result, our politics has become a popularity contest between the leaders.

If we want rational politics, we need to change this.silent,

Your father was a victim of the failure of international capitalism, not Whitlam. In 1973, the world's oil producing nations got together and demanded a fair price for their oil. This precipitated an international economic collapse that wrecked the businesses and careers of tens of millions around the globe.

Australia under Whitlam was shielded from the worst of this. Unemployment remained below 10%, and business activity in Australia remained strong. Truly viable businesses survived and even prospered. As usual in global downturns, unviable businesses failed. But Australia began exporting manufactured goods, including aircraft and cars to the world. Australian industry started to benefit from the contribution made by women, who were at last allowed to enter any occupation they chose AND receive equal pay. For the first time ever, ALL Australian citizens had access to affordable healthcare. And remember - Whitlam left office with a net government debt of zero dollars.

The real pain for Australia came after the Dismissal, and was the result of Fraser's obsession with "austerity". unemployment climbed over 10%, inflation exceeded 15% and interest soared to well above 20%. And this was while the rest of the world was in recovery.

I finished high school under a Fraser government. I graduated from university under a Fraser government (thanks to Whitlam), but it was not until the Hawke government was elected that I got my first, full-time, permanent employment.David,

I think that Andrew Denton said it best when he said (and I paraphrase) "There was Australia before Whitlam, and there is Australia after Whitlam."

Having been born in pre-Whitlam colonial Australia, I can tell you that Australia before Whitlam was a different country that very few would recognise today. It was a cultural backwater and an economic basket case entirely dependent on Mother England. It was illegal to read the works of DH Lawrence and James Joyce. If you were dealt with unjustly by our courts, your only recourse was to get an a ship to England and have your case reviewed by the Privy Council. Australia had no high court, no national art gallery or even collection. Any British subject could vote in our elections, regardless of citizenship, but it wasn't until 1967 that indigenous Australians could do the same. Australian manufacturing was so heavily protected that our manufacturing sector had not bothered to modernise its plant and equipment since WW2, and we had no exports except wheat wool and dirt.

Whitlam showed us that we could do stuff just as well as anyone else. When Whitlam left office, we were exporting aircraft and a wide range of manufactured goods to the world. We had a new and rapidly growing relationship with South East Asia, and it is this relationship that has sustained 0ur economy since the English dropped us like a hot cake in order to joint the Common Market.

When we look at all the things of which we are rightly proud as Australians, almost all began with Whitlam. Before that, we were simply a colonial dirt mine.Robert,

No, it was us, the Australian people, who betrayed Gough - first by not standing up for democracy in 1975, and since, by allowing ourselves to be bullied and cowed by the henchmen of international monopoly capital (the Liberal Party).

We have a long way to go before we can call ourselves either a democracy or a nation. Gough started that journey - all we had to do was keep our nerve and remember that we are as good and as capable as any people, anywhere on earth. But we have repeatedly failed the test. We betrayed Keating by giving into fear, and we betrayed Gillard by giving in to greed and hatred.

Whitlam, Keating and Gillard where elected when we were at our best, our most optimistic, our bravest. They lost office when we lost our nerve and our backbones.

One wonders how history would view Jefferson, Franklin and Washington had the American people been as cowardly as we have been.GRF,

"And if you want to prey it won't do any harm."

Perhaps you could explain how you can "prey" without causing harm. Or perhaps you would like to explain your novel concept to a warthog who has just been "preyed" upon by a leopard.

I think that Bradford would be better off praying, don't you?

But the problem with your weird idea about getting the victims of Ebola to provide the response is that the victims of Ebola are sick. They have been through a life-threatening illness and, in almost every case, will be suffering from serious damage to vital organs.

The other problem with your whacky scheme is that very few of the people who have survived Ebola have the sort of medical training required to make a meaningful contribution.

The people you see in "space suits" are TRAINED MEDICAL PROFESSIONALS. The vast majority of the people who have contracted Ebola are not. They are simply farmers, workers, shop keepers, tinkers, drivers and such.

There is ONE WAY and ONLY ONE WAY to deal with this outbreak and that is to put trained medical professionals on the ground, just as Cuba, the US and several European nations have done. The problem is that Cuba is still carrying most of the load and, as a relatively poor nation, it is hard to see how they can sustain this indefinitely. Without help, even the brilliant Cuban international health system cannot be expected to cope alone.

Rather than pestering the Iraqi government for permission to shoot Arabs, Julie Bishop should be heading for Havana with an offer to place Australian medical resources, expertise and personnel at the disposal of the Cuban disaster response system.

This is not a time to worry about ideology. The Cubans may have faults, but they have clearly got it right when it comes to health systems and disaster relief. We should provide the petrol, but let them drive.reaver,

" then the one question that the Australian public will be asking is "Which party has the policy most likely to keep it out of Australia?" "

Well, that is what will be splashed across the front pages of Murdoch's scandal rags and, as usual when Murdoch asks a question, it will be the wrong one.

There is only ONE way to keep Ebola out of Australia, and that is to throw all the resources we can muster at it now, in west Africa. If we don't get on top of it while it is still largely contained in one corner of one continent, there is no way that we can stop it from getting into Australia.

I've heard lots of pathetic, nonsensical excuses from Mr Abbott and co, but there can be no excuses for not acting. Unlike the nonsense in Syria and Iraq, the Ebola outbreak in Africa IS a real threat that has ALREADY shown its potential to overwhelm the under-prepared, chaotic health systems of "advanced" nations, with deaths and infection control failures in Europe and the United States. Do we really believe that Australia's ridiculous mish-mash of private and public health services would cope any better?

It is at times like this that the real quality of a political/social/economic system is evident. While "advanced" western nations are starting to realise just how dangerously exposed years of playing politics with their health systems has left them, it is Cuba that is leading the way in the global response to Ebola.

The ONLY question we need to ask at the moment is "how can we help" because it is only by stopping Ebola in Sierra Leone, Guinea and Liberia, that we can keep Ebola out of Australia.reaver,

"There have been no infection control failures in Europe and the United States, v."

You couldn't be more wrong if you tried. There have been cases of transmission in the US and Europe, and US and Spanish health officials have ADMITTED THAT THERE HAVE BEEN INFECTION CONTROL FAILURES.

The US is a particular worry because the vast majority of its population has such limited access to healthcare that, if the outbreak continues, many people showing symptoms will go undiagnosed.

There are plenty of people in various levels of government in the United States at the moment who are starting to remember why it is important to have a health system that includes ALL of your citizens.

Australia is in a better position than the United States, but the chaotic nature of our fragmented health system does pose some problems. It is at times like this that the advantages of a single, coordinated PUBLIC health system become clear. As I have pointed out, Cuba is leading the world's response to this crisis. They are ideally placed to do so because they have been providing health services in well over a hundred countries for many years ago.

When Hurricane Katrina hit New Orleans, Cuba informed the US State Department that it had 1500 medical professionals available to help. Many people died in New Orleans as a direct result of the US' refusal of this offer. The US failed to respond to Katrina, and it is failing to respond to the current crisis.

When it comes to looking after the health, safety and security of the people, Cuba is centuries ahead of the west.bren,

"We will not be able to assist Asia if our underprepared personnel are in Africa, approx 30 hours away."

If we let Ebola get to Asia, we well not be able to stop it from getting into Australia. It will be too late. And, while our health system may be one of the most developed in the Asia-Pacific region, but it is still hopelessly unprepared for an emergency like the one we currently face. Australia has eight public health systems and literally thousands of private companies reaping profits from our health system. There is virtually no coordination of these resources and it would be difficult to take control of them all and coordinate their actions if this became necessary.

Of particular concern are our health information systems. Despite the best efforts of the previous government to standardise and connect the various services and datasources across the health system, resistance from Tory states and the Abbott opposition seriously diluted the effectiveness of these measures.

It is probably too late to nationalise the entire health system in time to make a difference to this particular emergency, but serious consideration should be given to working towards a single, public health system as one of the "lessons learned" from this experience.

But, getting back to the current crisis, which is still largely confined to west Africa, that is where we want to keep it. There are several possible cures on the horizon, including a very promising Cuban-Thai breakthrough that, with the right level of financial support, could produce a vaccine in months. If we can ensure Ebola stays where it is, and this will take a massive effort from western nations, we will be able to get it under control and possibly even eradicate it at source.

Sitting on our hands and waiting for it to hit Asia would be suicidal.rusty,

"You used to say that Global Warming was THE threat of our time."

Have you ever heard the terms "acute" and "chronic"?

In medicine, an "acute" problem is generally short-lived, and presents all of its challenges in a relatively short space of time.

Hitting your thumb with a hammer causes acute pain (believe me, I have tried this on several occasions, always with the same result). You feel it immediately but, if you are lucky enough not to break a bone, the pain will be gone in a couple of days. If, however, your hammer lands on the knuckle of your thumb and shatters the bones around the joint, you may develop arthritis, which will provide you with a textbook example of chronic pain.

Either way, the pain you feel in your thumb is a SYMPTOM of an underlying malady. And the same can be said for both Ebola and anthropogenic climate change.

Ebola, like the periodic famines that strike Africa and parts of Asia, is an ACUTE symptom of the dysfunction of our global politico-economic system, and climate change is a CHRONIC symptom. There is insufficient space here to explain exactly why the global politico-economic system has failed so comprehensively, but the mere existence of the two aforementioned problems shows that it has.

Now, both acute and chronic problems require attention. If you hit your thumb with a hammer, you will probably need some short-term pain relief regardless of whether the injury results in chronic arthritis. If you have chronic arthritis, you will also need treatment. Neither is more serious than the other - it is all a matter of timeframe.

Climate change IS the biggest and most urgent CHRONIC problem that we face. Ebola IS the biggest and most urgent ACUTE problem that we face. We still have time to be PROACTIVE in combatting climate change. But, with the Ebola outbreak, we simply have to respond to what is already happening.

Both problems threaten human existence. Both require urgent action. Playing one off against the other is the height of stupidity.Zing,

It all depends on WHICH governments you are talking about.

Our government has bee missing in action - totally.

The US and some European countries have at least made a token effort to send doctors and other medical professionals.

But, as usual when there is a humanitarian crisis somewhere in the world, it is the Cuban government that has provided the leadership and resources to combat the threat.

You have to ask yourself, when a poor, third world country with no natural resources to speak of, and a GDP of just over $70 billion a year (compared with Australia's $1.2 TRILLION) can respond with over 500 medical professionals and all the equipment and pharmaceuticals they need, why Australia finds it so hard to mount a credible response.

And this in no fluke. Cuba currently has over 30,000 health professionals working around the globe, in 160 countries, in some cases (like East Timor) providing an entire health system from scratch. In other countries, they provide affordable pharmaceuticals, train health professionals, and conduct joint research programmes like, for example, the joint Cuban-Thai project that has produced a synthetic antibody for the Ebola virus that can attack the virus inside infected cells and stop it reproducing, and the joint Cuban-Brazillian project to eradicate meningitis from Africa's "meningitis belt".

The humanitarian crisis and the global health issue of which you speak are inseparable and indivisible. If we fail to deal with the humanitarian crisis in West Africa, we WILL have a global crisis on our hands. Cuba has it right, the West has it wrong.

Countries can defend themselves in a number of ways. The Cubans have chosen to defend their country by working to eliminate the causes of war and political violence (poverty, disease, inequality, maldistributed resources, hunger) BEFORE they result in conflict. We wait for a conflict to develop and then try to fix it using brute force.Ned,

"They don't need doctors. There's no cure."

I have often wondered why "Ned" is such a popular name for donkeys. Thanks so much for clearing up the mystery.

So far, we have not found a cure for Ebola, but a joint Cuban-Thai research project could have one within months with the right support from rich western nations.

But, despite the fact that Ebola has no known cure at the present moment, it CAN be treated and some of those treated recover. The good thing about this is that those who have recovered have antibodies to the disease that can be used to treat other infected people, and just in the act of treating Ebola patients, we learn so much more about the disease, and this knowledge will eventually contribute to the cure.

Africa has no shortage of unqualified people to provide the unskilled labour required in the response to this epidemic. What they don't have is trained medical professionals on the ground, who can actually treat the disease, harvest the antibodies, and stop the disease from spreading.

So far, the only meaningful and coordinated response has come from the Cubans. The UN should put them in charge of the response and call on all affluent member nations to provide the medical personnel, equipment and funding required to stop Ebola in its tracks.

But we should not stop there. For our own safety, we need to invest heavily in the elimination of the chronic problems facing Africa, especially those of disease, poverty and lack of education. The example set by Cuba in East Timor and by Cuba and Brazil in the "Meningitis Belt" shows that great things are possible IF WE TRY.

We have some catching up to do.SueB,

"How are we stopping anyone going to West Africa to give their expertise in the care of people with Ebola?"

The easiest way to stop people from travelling on such a humanitarian mission is simply to refuse them consular and diplomatic support, and this is effectively what our government has done. NO EFFORT WHATSOEVER has been made to facilitate their journey or to provide the support required to make their journeys worthwhile.

When you contrast the response of our government with its eagerness to get involved in a war where it is clearly NOT WANTED and definitely NOT REQUIRED, it really does make you wonder what has happened to Mr Abbott and Ms Bishop's basic human instincts, Have they really been so perverted by a life of self-deception and yarn-spinning that they have lost the ability to be human?

Even on a pragmatic level, the current government's response to recent world events has been counter-productive. Mr Abbott and Ms Bishop's intemperate remarks concerning the tragic loss of MH17 (which now appears to have been shot down by a UKRAINIAN missile) have the potential to seriously degrade both our economic position and our national security, and Mr Abbott's unforgivable and inexplicable threat to physically assault the Russian head of state has made Australia an international laughing stock. In pestering the Iraqis for an invite to their civil war, Australia has made itself a much larger target than it would have been if it had kept its nose out of other people's affairs. But Australia's contribution will be largely irrelevant to the outcome.

But when Abbott is faced with a REAL emergency, he is missing in action. Ebola is by far the greatest threat to the safety of individual Australians, the health of the Australian economy, and Australia's national security, at least since the end of WW2. Perhaps, Abbott should take Menzies example - flee the country and let Shorten take over.Zing,

"Africa is a combination of large populations, poor sanitation and insufficient healthcare. "

That's right, Africa is where we see the failures of international monopoly capitalism and imperialism in full focus. While we sing the praises of capitalism's ability to deliver a constant stream of stuff that we don't need and, in most cases would be better off without, the people of Africa confront the realities of capitalisms failure on a daily basis.

But it is not all bad news. Huge inroads are being made into the problem by the Cubans, who have been in the business of international medicine for many years, and more recently the Brazilians. There are twenty-three countries in Africa whose development and prosperity have been severely hampered by the scourge of Meningitis A and B. There are vaccines available that could eradicate or at least control these diseases, but the international monopoly drug cartels don't get sufficient profits from making it, so supplies were very short and ridiculously expensive ($15-$80 per dose).

When the WHO issued an urgent appeal for help, Cuba and Brazil responded jointly, setting up a programme to manufacture the vaccine and distribute it in the countries of the "Meningitis Belt". The efficiency of socialist production means that they can sustain their operations and supply the drug for less than a dollar per dose, while the drug cartels apparently struggle to make a profit from selling it for $80 per dose.

Africa does not have to remain the dumping ground for all of the failures of capitalism. The people of Africa are human beings, just like us. In fact, if you dig deep enough, we are all Africans. Cuba and Brazil are leading the way when it comes to lifting Africa out of poverty and disease, and we should follow their example.Paul,

You are quite right. It is all a matter of priorities and, at the moment, Australia and most of the "advanced western democracies" have their priorities backwards. While billions are being wasted on chasing an historical blip called ISIS, the crisis building in west Africa is perhaps the most severe acute to our way of life, our national security and even the future of our civilisation, that we have faced for many centuries. It has the potential to make the Spanish Influenza epidemic that followed WW1, look like a sniffle.

Despite what Paula thinks, this is an issue well beyond politics. If the threat was to the dominance of western power, as it is in Syria, and the suggested solution was violent military action, you can bet your back teeth that Abbott and Bishop would be pestering west African governments for an invitation to join the turkey shoot. But when it comes to doing something that really does need to be done, and in which Australia could make a huge contribution, we are missing in action.

I wonder what the Cuban people would make of Australia's reluctance to help. Australia has a GDP of over a trillion dollars a year and a population of about 23 million. Cuba has a GDP of just over 70 billion dollars and a population of 14 million. Cuba currently has over 300 medical professionals working in the affected countries, who are among 30,000 Cuban doctors, nurses and paramedics working in over 160 countries around the world. The East Timorese health system, which has been responsible for a halving of the infant mortality rate since independence, and an increase in life expectancy of over 20 years, has been provided by Cuba. When medical professionals abandoned South Africa after the fall of apartheid, Cuba stepped in to fill the breach.

As I said, this issue is way above politics. We have only one chance to get this right. But it appears that we would rather shoot Arabs than help humanity (including ourselves), and we should be very ashamed of that.Jay,

" And in reality, what happened? "

What happened was that the response you speak of WORKED. Swine flu did not get away because the international response was effective in not letting it get away from us.

But it is a different story with Ebola. Many of the early victims of swine flu were citizens of affluent western countries and the old "one white person = fifty Indians or a thousand Africans" came into effect. Ebola, on the other hand, broke out in a few dirt-poor West African countries and, as a result, has managed to secure a foothold from which it can, if unchecked by concerted international action, spread across the globe.

But don't worry, we've seen this before. When we learned in the 1970's that unregulated emissions of chloro-flurocarbons were eroding the ozone layer and that this could have disastrous consequences for agriculture, biodiversity and human health, the world responded, replacing CFCs with less damaging gases. As a result, we have just learned that the depletion of the ozone layer has not just been stopped, it has been reversed.

So now we have climate change deniers citing the failure of the ozone depletion crisis to end all life on earth as proof that we should sit on our hands rather than face the challenges posed by CO2 pollution in our atmosphere.

The simple fact is that, when we respond as an international community of human beings, we can achieve great things. We know for sure now that we CAN make changes that CAN influence the behaviour and properties of the atmosphere, just as our response to swine flu showed us how effective we CAN be if we work together to contain and control a potentially pandemic disease.reaver,

"The only transmissions outside of Liberia, Sierra Leone or Guinea have been from a traveller from Liberia, Sierra Leone or Guinea to a local health worker treating them,"

No, reaver, there have been DOCUMENTED cases of transmission in the United States and in Spain. Currently, there are four hospitals in the United States with Ebola patients, and not all of these have been to Africa.

We still have time. It is probably too late to make major changes to the health system, but we could at least place the private elements of our health system under government control, just as our factories and farms were placed under government control during WW2. This would give us a much better chance of coordinating the response and ensuring that the "efficiencies" (penny-pinching) of the private system do not create gaps through which Ebola can escape.

This issue is well above politics, which is why, I suspect, you are in denial. To admit that we face a problem is to admit that the Western Empire has gotten it wrong, and you cannot accept this reality.

GROW UP! This is not time for childish denialism.CM,

Perhaps you should have also pointed out that, unlike HIV, which is a retrovirus that can only be transmitted by the injection of infected bodily fluids into the body of the victim (usually by hypodermic injection or sexual contact), Ebola can be spread my mere contact of infected bodily secretions with unprotected skin. The only real blessing is that it appears that none of its current strains are capable of being spread by aerosols, as is the case with many respiratory viruses.

The fact that there are thousands of people in Africa who are currently infected with the disease tends to suggest that it is highly contagious, and the fact that even high-tech hospitals in "advanced" western nations have been unable to prevent the infection of health workers and others tends to reinforce this.

Besides, being "symptomatic" does not necessarily mean that you are aware of the symptoms. A slightly elevated temperature is one of the first symptoms. Most of us are unaware of our body temperature and wouldn't notice a slight elevation. So it is possible to be symptomatic, but also oblivious to the fact that you are both symptomatic and infectious. By the time the more serious symptoms arise, you have probably already infected heaps of people.

Believe me, this is a serious problem - unlike ISIS, which is a mere historical blip that will solve itself if left alone.Zing,

"If Indonesia has an Ebola outbreak, people will flee the country for Australian shores"

Agreed. And, if this happens, even you must be able to see past your blinkers far enough to realise that there aren't enough orange lifeboats on earth to send all of those people back. Besides, what of the brave military personnel who have to put themselves at risk so that you can sit safely in your armchair and feel superior? Can you think of any valid reason why they should be put at risk when it is still possible to stop Ebola from getting to Indonesia?

If the population of Indonesia, or even a small portion of it, decides to get on boats and head for Australia, Australia can do nothing to stop them. We simply do not have the resources - especially considering that our best troops, many of our naval assets, and the core of our air defence capacity, are currently cooling their heels in the Middle East waiting for someone to find them a token task to justify their journey. So, if Ebola gets to Indonesia, it will be too late to do anything about it.

If we want to keep Ebola out of Australia, we need to confine it to West Africa and then get rid of it from there. We cannot wait for it to arrive on our doorstep. If this happens, we will be powerless to act.JRM,

"Gillard said she didn't handle foreign diplomatic duties very well."

No she didn't. What she DID say was that foreign affairs was not her primary interest and that she was more interested in the domestic issues of health and education.

But Ms Gillard did what any good leader would do. She didn't try to "wing it" as Abbott does, she sought the advice of experienced diplomats and officials in DFAT and elsewhere. With this advice and support, she managed to negotiate the most significant international agreement with any nation since Gough Whitlam recognised China and started our engagement with Asia.

The agreement signed by Gillard with China gives our exporters "most favoured nation" status in the Chinese market, placing Australian exports above those of every other country in the list of suppliers. It also allows for the free exchange of Australian and Chinese currency, placing Australia in the box seat to take over from places like Singapore and Hong Kong as the financial trading hub of the East Asian and Western Pacific region.

And what has Abbott achieved so far? The Japanese have increased their tarriffs on Australian coal. He has offended every civlised nation on earth and set the work of DFAT back thirty years by threatening to physically assault the head of state of a friendly power while he is a guest in our country. He has caused international outrage with his refusal to attend an important international conference on climate change in New York, despite being in New York at the time. And he has completely dropped the ball on the ebola outbreak - which, unlike the antics of ISIL - poses a real and present danger to our national security, our economy, our freedom of movement AND our lives.

If you want to make Abbott look good, it would be a VERY good idea not to hold up his record against Gillard's.Wildfire,

"...she had a very keen intellect."

Well there's no doubt about that, but I think that her success in international affairs was based on more than just intellect. As with most Labor politicians, Ms Gillard was already a very experienced and capable negotiator before she entered parliament. And her skills in this area became very obvious after the 2010 election, when she out-negotiated Abbott to secure the support of conservative independents to form a government and went on to preside over the most productive parliament in our history.

Diplomacy is not that different from any other form of negotiation, so it is not really that surprising that the skills Ms Gillard picked up and perfected representing Australian workers on the domestic industrial and legal front translated well into diplomatic skills on the international stage.

Ms Gillard was up-front with the Australian people in declaring that she was no expert in international relations. But she made excellent use of the vast pool of experience and expertise available to her in DFAT and the diplomatic corps. In other words, she acted like a true leader, not only seeking the advice of those under her, but letting them do their jobs effectively without political interference or micro-management.

Abbott would do well to take a leaf from her book.AGB,

"Her deals with the Greens and independents brought us the politically poisonous carbon tax, among other things?"

No, there never was any such thing as a carbon tax. That was just Rupert's weasel words for the carbon pricing scheme that Ms Gillard promised before the 2010 election, so how exactly, was this a result of a "deal" with the Greens.

"I assume you're referring to bills passed into legislation? "

The normal measure of productivity is output compared to input. The last parliament produced more legislation than any other in our history, making it the most productive in our history. In terms of what we are talking about here, which is Ms Gillard's skills as a negotiator, this was an extraordinary achievement in a hung parliament in which the balance of power was held by ideological allies of the Tories.

As I said, Ms Gillard's success on the international scene was no surprise, given her background of negotiating the cauldron of industrial relations with such aplomb. But, even more important to her success was her ability to listen and learn - two skills that are clearly lacking in her successor as PM. She let her foreign affairs officials do their jobs. She took their advice. She did not attempt to score domestic political points on the international stage. And she certainly never threatened a fellow world leader with violence.
Olive,

" Whatever 'shirt front' means to you is one thing but it has a number of meanings "

That's right, but they all have one thing in common: an assault upon the person. The two most commonly used meanings are:

1: To grab someone by the front panels of their shirt or coat and draw them toward you in a threatening manner;

2: An illegal tackle in Australian Rules Football in which a player attempts to take his opponent out of the game by crashing into him chest-to-chest.

To be honest, I am not sure whether it was a slip of the tongue, or whether one of his wordsmiths was on a bad trip that day but, whatever the explanation, it was the most disastrous foreign policy gaffe that I can remember in over 40 years of watching politics. There is no way in which his words could be construed as "Prime Ministerial", much less "Statesmanlike".

Having Abbott representing Australia on the international stage is a bit like having a hand grenade in your underpants.Kevin,

Well said.

A person who risks their life to get to Australia is likely to be far more committed to the idea of being Australian than someone who was born here. To become a citizen, the refugee will swear allegiance to Australia and promise to uphold its values. Very few of those who agitate for the persecution of refugees, and would be attracted to offensive t-shirts like the one sold by Woolies, have ever sworn alliegance to Australia or made any effort to become Australian. And it is clear from the attitudes that they preach that they despise Australian values (comradeship, unionism, multiculturalism, hospitality, tolerance, openess, hostility to authority, hostility to bosses, larrinkinism....). They are accidental Australians, who would not have bothered to become Australians if they were not born here.

The cowards who wear offensive, small minded t-shirts like the ones sold by Woolies are not the sort of people who join the armed forces or put their own safety on the line to defend Australian values. They will come out on Australia Day and ANZAC Day to bathe in the reflected glory of real patriots and heroes, but ask them to make a sacrifice for the country and they will shoot down rabbit holes quicker than you can say "cowardice".Aussie Sutra,

"What you're suggesting is that it is Australia's responsibility to provide citizenship to any person who lacks it otherwise in this world."

Nobody is asking us to do that. All that is expected of us by INTERNATIONAL LAW is that we provide resettlement within Australia to stateless people who turn up here. We bear no responsibility to grant them citizenship unless they qualify for citizenship in the normal way (live here for the required period of time, apply for citizenship, pass the stupid test, swear allegiance and get your certificate). And we bear no responsibility to grant citizenship to the millions who are currently displaced around the world. All we are being asked to do is what we agreed to do back in the 1950s. All we have to do is deal with the stateless people who turn up here asking for our help, and this is a miniscule proportion of the total number of displaced and stateless people in the world today.

I suppose it all boils down to whether Australia is a "lifter" or a "leaner". You and Abbott want us to be "leaners", but I think that most Australians would prefer to see themselves, and their nation, as "lifters".reaver,

"the treaties and conventions that Australia signs are not law in Australia unless made into law by an Act of Parliament "

Not quite true.

There have been a number of cases in the High Court in which principles agreed to in international treaties and conventions have become part of Australian law, and there have also been a number of cases in which the High Court has disallowed legislation on the grounds that it is in conflict with international treaties and conventions to which Australia is a signatory.

When Australia signs a treaty or agreement, we are agreeing to treat the provisions of that agreement as law. That is the whole point of having treaties and agreement in the first place. If nations were free to agree to terms and provisions in a treaty, and then completely ignore those provisions in its theiractions, what would be the point of having treaties and conventions in the first place?

Compliance with international law is no more optional for nations than compliance with domestic law is for individual citizens.maddog,

I have a number of friends who were born to foreign parents in Australia, and have qualified for Australian citizenship as a result. The best teacher I ever had was born on a ship in the Indian Ocean, to South African parents, and is an Australian citizen because the ship on which he was born was registered in Australia (back when we still had a merchant fleet of our own).

The young child at the centre of the current storm may one day become an Australian citizen if she so chooses. But that is not what is being asked for at the moment. All that is being asked for is that she be allowed to stay in the country of her birth.Disraeli,

"could be seen as a criticism of Woolworths decision to remove the T-shirts from sale?"

That's the funny thing about things. They can be seen in all sorts of ways, depending on how much you wish to pervert them for ideological reasons.

Woolies miscalculated. It under-estimated the integrity and decency of the Australian people. When it became clear that this had insulted the Australian people and that, not only were they unlikely to sell many offensive t-shirts, but the presence of the t-shirts in its range could detract from sales of other products in its range.

It was a commercial decision, taken for commercial reasons. Woolies thought that they could exploit the insecurity and paranoia whipped up by the current panic over terrorism, and they were wrong. Now that it is clear that there is no money in it, they have withdrawn the offensive item.

Remember, freedom of speech is a HUMAN right. It does not extend to corporations like Woolies. If Woolies does or says something that is offensive, we can stop them from doing or saying that thing without infringing upon anyone's right to free speech.rikisty,

"A corporation has a right to express itself as it pleases."

Let's get this straight. Human rights are for HUMAN BEINGS. They exist as a part of a social contract between human society and the individual human being. And they are a two-way steet. Each right we enjoy is attended by responsibilities. For example, our right to free speech is attended by a responsibility to speak responsibly, ensure to the best of your ability that what you are saying is true, to avoid causing hurt, intimidation or panic with your words, and to honestly state your GENUINELY HELD opinion without any expectation of reward or fear of sanction. Someone who, for a joke or even for more malicious reasons, stands up in a crowded cinema and shouts "FIRE!" deserves to be punished for their crime. This would not be an infringement of their right to speak freely because shouting "FIRE!" in a crowded public space when you know that there is no fire is not an exercise of free speech - it is just stupid (at best).

So, you cannot have rights without also having responsibilities. But corporations are legal devices specifically set up to allow their shareholders to profit from their activities without accepting any responsibility for the consequences of those activities. Which is why they are called "Limited Liability Companies". In other words, corporations are devices by which human beings can avoid their responsibilities and, as such, there is no reasonable way in which we can give them the same rights as human beings, who ARE obliged to act responsibly and who CAN be held to account.Peter who wishes he were a lawyer,

"SUch a freedom is a feeedom against government interfence with speech,"

You couldn't have it more wrong if you tried (and I am sure that you did).

The right to "Freedom of Speech" is derived from two of the three fundamental, inalienable rights identified by Paine, Franklin, Jefferson and others: The Right to Liberty, and the Right to the Pursuit of Happiness.

It is important to remember that the right to "Freedom of Speech" is not the same thing as the right to say whatever you like whenever you like.

The right to "Freedom of Speech" guarantees INDIVIDUAL HUMAN BEINGS the right to freely and openly state their HONESTLY HELD OPINION without fear of retribution (from the state) OR EXPECTATION OF REWARD.

And the right to "FREEDOM OF SPEECH" is attended by certain obligations. Perhaps the most important of these is the obligation to ensure that you exercise this right in a responsible manner. This means that you need to take reasonable steps to ensure that what you are saying is correct, and that it is in the public interest to say it.

This is reflected in the laws of defamation, to which you refer. If you are sued for defamation and it can be proven that you said or published what you are alleged to have said or published, and it can be demonstrated that you have caused harm by saying or publishing it, you have two defences available to you: that what you said or published was true (or that you have taken reasonable steps to assure yourself of its veracity), and that it was in the public interest to say it.Ruffles,

"However, some consider that it is OK to ban Aussies from wearing what they want to wear."

That may or may not be true, but as nobody in this discussion has suggested anything of the kind, it is also entirely irrelevant.

Australians have the right to wear what they like, but this does not mean that corporations are free to sell what they like. Corporations are very different thing to human beings. Human beings are sentient, biological entities and, as far as we know, we are the cleverest thing that the universe has managed to come up with.

One of the things that we do that distinguishes from most other biological entities is tool-making, Other animals make and use tools, but only humans take it to the level that we have. We make tools for everything. Some tools are physical entities (hammers, eggbeaters, lawnmowers, cars etc) and some are abstract (laws, corporations, nations, governments etc). I say that hey are abstract because they have no corporeal existence and, in fact, only exist as concepts.

So, corporations are tools that we use. As such, they are no more entitled to "rights" than are lawnmowers or steam irons.

We need to get these things into perspective. Anthropomorphising corporations and pretending that they have rights is not just an insult to every human being who ever lived, it is a direct attack on the fundamental rights of humankind.los,

"Would it be so bad if Australia was a little more outwardly patriotic?"

The term "outwardly patriotic" is an oxymoron. Patriotism is something that you feel, it is not something that you trumpet. Patriotism is a private affair. Real patriots do not hide behind flags or anthems. Real patriots praise their nation's achievements, criticise its deficiencies, and fight hard to eliminate the deficiencies and leave a better nation to our descendants than we inherited from our ancestors.

I think that you are mistaking the cowardly, low-browed jingoism of jackasses like John Howard and Alan Jones, for patriotism. In fact it is the antithesis of patriotism. Patriots do not stridently claim that their couintry is the "greatest nation on earth" as Howard was prone to do. Patriots do not prowl the streets of Cronulla in gangs, wrapped in flags, looking for outnumbered, dark-skinned victims to assult and intimidate. Patriots do salute rags on sticks or stand for mindless dirges.

Patriots care enough for their country to defy their government and even their laws when these threaten to diminsh the nation. Patriots are despised and vilified by jingoists like Howard and Abbott, who call them "unAustralian".

We can demonstrate our patriotism best by actually building and delivering the independent, social-democratic "workers' paradise" promised to the ANZACs by their government. Waving flags and stridently shouting about our greatness is simply a case of "the lady doth protest too much".los,

"That you even know anyone that would "physically attack someone" .... ANYONE, is a worry. "

I have yet to meet a person who would not physically attack someone, given the right circumstances. Human beings occasionally attack each other. Anyone who claims that they would never attack another human being under ANY circumstances is a liar (both to themselves and to others). Even our Prime Minister has expressed an intention to physically attack the President of Russia (but I'll bet that he hasn't got the guts to carry out the threat).

But Terry was not claiming to know people who would attack US tourists - rather that many US citizens choose to disguise their nationality for fear of reaping some of the anger generated by their governments failed foreign policy and the unspeakable behaviour of US-based corporations. And I can back him (or her) up, because I met many US citizens who were doing just that on my travels in Europe and elsewhere.

One of the major problems faced by the US is that patriotism has been killed off by base, venal, jingoism. Any rational criticism of the many faults of US society gets shouted down and labelled un-American, so US society continues to decline and the actions of the US on the world stage continue to generate fresh reasons for the citizens of the third world to hate the US.

The US would benefit greatly from listening to genuine patriots like Noam Chomsky, and honestly facing up to the task of rebuilding a shattered and dysfunctional civil society. I honestly hope that they can make it. I'd hate to see Franklin and Jefferson's brave experiment fail totally.av,

"Actually I think the left equivalent is "Australia has no culture.""

Actually, the "left equivalent" is "Australia is a land of many cultures". In fact, the majority of Australia's cultures pre-date Australia by tens of thousands of years. Unfortunately, the imposition of one particular culture initiated an almost genocidal campaign to eliminate most of Australia's cultures and, even more unfortunately, this campaign has been at least partially successful.

Of course, we are the losers. The cultures that Anglo-European imperialism has destroyed cannot be retrieved. They are gone. Extinct. And we will never know how useful these cultures, with their unique perspectives, could have been in solving the problems we face in the future.

I am a big dog-lover. I have always had a dog. I always choose cross-bred dogs because they are the most intelligent, adaptable and resilient. This principle is repeated over and over again in nature. Strength comes from diversity and adaptability. We should do all that we can to both preserve and protect all of our cultures, because we never know when we will need what they can offer. And we should be constantly assimilating into our own, individual world views, the features of as many cultures as possible, wherever they offer advantages.

This is how living things evolve and survive. Monoculture is a dead-end street.dawsonb,

"If some idiot wants to put that on their t-shirt, let them."

I agree. But that is not what we are talking about here. What we are talking about here is a monopolist corporation who thought that it could get away with clearing out some old stock while Australia was in a jingoistic panic. It was a case of a corporation falling into the trap of believing corporate propaganda. Woolies misread the mood of the Australian people. It clearly thought that we were all as mad as Abbott.

Thank heavens Woolies was wrong.Ian,

"Non Australian arrivals here don't have to like beer and footy, but there should never be an ative anti Australian movement"

Wanting to change Australia is not the same as being "anti-Australian". If you honestly believe that there is a fault that can be fixed, you should do all that you can to see that it is fixed.

But I believe that it is "?nti-Australian" to occupy the highest elected position in the land while taking your orders from a foreign, corporate master (as does our "patriotic" PM). And it is definitely anti-Australian to vilify your fellow Australians on the basis of their religion, their views on modesty or anything that they do in good faith. And it is even more "anti-Australian" to wear stupid t-shirts telling your fellow Australians to leave simply because you disagree with what they say or think.

I say that these things are "anti-Australian" because they proved to be decidedly "anti-German" when Germany went mad in the 1930s, "?nti-Serbian" when Serbia went mad fifty years later. The Germans who opened the gas taps probably saw themselves as patriots.

Next time you feel tempted to wrap yourself in a flag, remember where such idiocy can lead.harry,

"One can love something or someone, despite their faults"

Considering that nothing or no-one is perfect, this would seem to be a pre-requisite of love.

But you can love someone without loving their faults. And, if you really love them, you will point out their faults to them and do what you can to help them overcome these faults. Actually, that's one of the best things about genuine friendship and love: the fact that it can make you, and your friend better people.

Patriotism is not the same thing as love, but it is close enough. Franklin and Jefferson were patriots. They never stridently proclaimed the superiority of their nation - they were too busy building one. They recognised some of the potential pitfalls that could de-rail their new nation and turn it into a macabre mannequin of the empire against which they were fighting. Unfortunately their warnings were ignored by the strident jingoists who followed inherited their legacy.

But if patriotism can be equated to love, this can only be in the sense that this love is not for an abstract entity like a country, but rather for one's countrymen. This simple truth tends to get shouted down by yobbos waving flags.Vince,

"Parents that value education highly imprint this on their children, who go on to learn and perform well academically."

What a pity that academic achievement is no indication of a successful education. Academic achievement can be achieved just as easily by training as through education.

Parents DO play an important role in the education of children, but all of their best efforts will be undermined by a sub-standard school system devoted to molding real, live human beings into shapes that are acceptable to employers. You can spend all of your time teaching your kids not to be scared, not to bow down to authority and to question everything, only to have this effort made naught by your kid's first day at school, when they are told to sit still, be quiet, and accept everything that their teacher says as the gospel truth.

There is no doubting that it is a parent's responsibility to prepare their children for a life of learning. But education, and school education in particular, is a SOCIAL responsibility. Schools have two stakeholders: human culture and schoolkids. Teachers, parents, employers and religious institutions all have RESPONSIBILITIES when it comes to education, but no valid claim to be stakeholders.

It is our responsibility as a society to educate new generations of human beings. It is how we maintain and extend our most precious treasure: human culture, and make it available and accessible to the next generation of precious treasures - our kids. And THAT's what schools are for.gd,

"Schools are there to impart an academic understanding
Parents should be there to create the social law abding citizen"

No, thesedays schools exist as a place to dump the kids while you are at work. And parents can't be "there to create the social law abiding citizen" because they are at work.

The main usefulness of schools is that they bring kids together in large numbers, allowing them to experiment with their interactions and learn what they will need to know in order to get on with their fellow citizens in adult life. The vast majority of these lessons are learnt in the playground, not the classroom.

This process of "socialisation" cannot be taught. As a matter of fact, attempts to teach social skills tend to be counterproductive. It is something that kids learn from each other, and from the examples set by significant adults, including their parents.

At the moment, our schools are not generally responsive to the needs of students. Instead they are prescriptive - imposing rigid models of learning that suit some and exclude most. We need to change this.

Kids will learn by default because they are small human beings and curiosity and a desire to learn are two instinctive human behaviours. We can help them best by gathering them together in unstructured environments and letting them get on with learning. Schools provide the obvious venue for this, and teachers should be empowered to act as mentors and facilitators rather than as filling-station attendants tasked with "topping up" the knowledge tanks of their students.

We have become so obsessed with the idea that nothing happens unless you make it happen that we have forgotten that a hell of a lot of good stuff happens simply because we allow it to happen. Perhaps the "Sermon on the Mount" and Tao-Te-Ching should be compulsory reading for all new school teachers and parents.gremlins,

"It's amazing what harm disinterested parents "

Well I certainly hope that you were not teaching English.

"Disinterested" has a very similar meaning to "unbiased" and "impartial". It means that you are in a position to consider a problem independently of your own interests. And it is exactly the attitude that all parents should take to their childrens' education. The last thing we want is parents attempting to impose considerations of their own interests onto the education of our next generation.

I suspect that you mean "uninterested" or even "disengaged" because, in the context in which you used it, "disinterested" makes no sense at all.

Parents have a role to play in facilitating their children's education, and so do teachers, the people who design school buildings, people who serve in the school canteen, school caretakers, lollypop people, school bus drivers....and so on. The role of parents is to provide their kids with a stable home environment that is conducive to learning. Parents can assist greatly by doing stuff like reading picture books WITH (not TO) their pre-school-aged kids and inventing games that challenge them to think creatively, as well as giving them a healthy scepticism of authority and the confidence to question and challenge. In other words, a parent's role is to empower their kid to get the most that they can possibly get from their experience at school.

By far the greatest damage that is done to kids' education today is done by the barrage of negative corporate propaganda that assaults them on a daily basis and, since the inception of mobile computing devices, has become almost inescapable.

We can't really do much about some parents' attitudes to education without gross invasions of their fundamental rights. But we can do something about the vindictively anti-social propaganda that floods our kids' lives and undoes so much of the positive messages we try to impart to them. As a matter of fact, we could eliminate it tomorrow without infringing on the rights of a single human being. And that is what we SHOULD be doing.MD,

"has very few private schools, no publically-funded private schools, and comparative funding between state schools is needs-based. "

Yes, when you look at it, it is not that dissimilar to what was being recommended by the Gonski review.

What a pity that Gonski is gonsky.RoxyR,

"However, look to have accelerated learning at school or streaming of gifted children and we cry "elitist"."

For good reason.

Kids develop at different rates and have different strengths and weaknesses. In other words, they are human.

All of the "smart" kids with whom I went through primary school ended up in dead-end jobs. Some started uni, none finished. The truth is that they were never that smart. But they are the ones who would have been identified as "gifted" because of their precocious development of one or two skills that we consider to be indicators of high intelligence.

All kids are "gifted". Some are "gifted" in areas that we foolishly associate with intelligence and cleverness, but most are "gifted" in areas that we undervalue or ignore. The role of schools is to identify and develop, encourage and facilitate the individual talents and "gifts" of EACH STUDENT.

We have no idea what challenges will be faced by our kids as adults. So it is pointless to try to concentrate on particular skills or particular fields of knowledge. Human beings have spread out to occupy every continent on earth, have reached our near neighbours in space., and have even managed to send an artifact out of our own solar system. We have achieved these great feats through our adaptability and problem-solving abilities. Humanity's greatest strength is our ability to adapt to new sitiuations and challenges, and it is the duty of our education systems to extend and enhance this natural talent that we ALL possess.

We won't achieve this by "picking winners" and forgetting the rest. The most important lesson you learn at school is to get on with your fellow human beings in situations that you would probably not choose. And this includes getting on with "smart" people and "dumb" people.

Exclusivism and elitism are entirely antithetical to the principles of education. There is no place for favouritism in our schools. You need to remember that Einstein NEVER mastered arithmetic.Edward,

"One of the things that you overlook is that a weakness of mixing all intelligence levels together is that you can end up with a disruptive environment."

You need to look a bit deeper.

First of all, the very idea of different "intelligence levels" is so outmoded and ridiculous that it makes about as much sense as specifying the length of your next boat in cubits.

There are no such thing as "intelligence levels". We are all equivalent in intelligence (excluding those suffereing from pathological or truamatic injury to their brains). Our intelligence expresses itself in different ways. Some of these ways are highly valued by society and, for that reason, people who exhibit intelligence in these ways are seen as intelligent, while those who exhibit intelligence in other ways are seen as dumbos.

But intelligence in itself counts for nothing. What matters is how intelligence is used, and this is where schools and education come in. Their role is to find the intelligence in each human being and develop it to its full potential by showing the student how their intelligence can be used to make their life better.Edward,

"my general thrust that people with similar abilities (if you like) should be grouped together within the learning environment. While a pure mathematical wiz and an innumerate artist might get along great in the play ground they would be disruptive if placed in the same class and neither would get the "best" educational outcome."

You are assuming that schools are merely information "filling stations" whose only role is to stuff our kids' heads full of knowledge. And this is obvious nonsense.

The role of schools is to EDUCATE children . This education has many sources within the school. Obviously the time spent in the classroom is important, and the role of the teacher is crucial to the ACADEMIC side of the education, but the most important lesson that kids learn at school they learn from each other - and that is how to work constructively with people of all different levels of talents and skills.

It is criminal negligence to rob kids of this vital lesson by restricting their classroom and social interactions to a narrowly and in many cases arbitrarily defined "peers". Most of the stuff in the curriculum can be picked up later in life if you miss it the first time around in primary school and high school. But this is not the case for many "life skills" that our children learn mainly from each other.

We already have far too many psychopaths and sociopaths in our society. We don't need to keep training new generations of them by excluding kids from free and comprehensive contact and interaction with their fellow students.Edward,

"At the end of the day education is an academic environment "

I'm sorry Edward, but this is exactly the same nonsense spouted by the "Sophists" over 2,000 years ago.

The truth is that education is simply a consequence of consciousness. Whether we like it or not, we are being constantly educated by the world around us, by interactions with fellow human beings and other entities, and our own internal reflections on these.

Education is simply learning about life in a manner that allows you to enjoy and enhance your own life and those of your comrades. Some the lessons we learn can be taught in a classroom, but most cannot. And the most important lessons of all cannot be taught, only learnt.

If you have time, perhaps you would like to have a bit of a read about Socrates and his ultimately fatal dispute with the Sophists. I reckon that you would find it a very interesting story.Edward,

"In my view this should take place outside of the school environment and should primarily be the responsibility of the parent."

Sorry, but this is simply not possible. Parents cannot teach their kids how to get on with their fellow schoolkids. This is a lesson that can only be learnt, not taught. We facilitate this learning by lumping a whole heap of kids together in schools. The lessons are most effectively learnt when kids are exposed to all different levels and types of capacity in their fellow students. A genius can learn as much from a dunce as a dunce can learn from a genius.

The most important part of the lesson is learning how to recognise and value the talents of others, and to develop cooperative strategies for combining these talents with your own in mutualy beneficial ways. Kids do it quite naturally in the games they invent if we are prepared to step back and let them get on with it. And that is why break times and time in the playground are actually more important to the education of children than time spent in the classroom.

I agree that parents have an important role to play, but not in the way that you suggest. You don't have to "teach" socialisation - as a matter of fact, such a thing is impossible. Socialisation is a skill kids pick up naturally by socialising. But where parents make their most important contribution is in "leading by example" - by being avid readers themselves, and by spending the time to sit down with their pre-shool-age kids, reading picture books and developing the skill of "visualisation" that is so vital to true textual literacy. As a matter of fact, parents can give their kids a "head start" in quite a few disciplines that they will study at school by approaching them in a playful and irreverent manner.

I think that part of the problem is that we have become so addicted to the idea of being in control that it is very difficult for us to conceive of the possibility that education and learning is something that human beings do by default, without the need for intervention or direction. If we can get over this hurdle and concentrate on letting kids learn rather than forcing knowledge into their heads, we will build a much happier society.Edward,

"Your idelism works when society adjusts to a model which values what the individual can add to the whole in an overall sense. Today's world is mercenary in its outlook and children need to be prepared to survive in that world."

My main concern is how we get from the situation described in the second sentence, to the situation described in the first. And I think that the education system can play an important role in making this transition.

It would be truly terrible if we bequeathed to our descendants the same dysfunctional society that we inherited from our parents. Every generation has a duty to drive our society a little further along the road to true civilisation and democracy. The educational opportunities we provide for our kids is a key part of fulfilling this duty.

And don't worry - having attended a "demonstration school", I am well aware of the pitfalls of "experimentation" in education. My handwriting has always suffered from a bizarre experiment in which we were forced to write in italic script with offset nib-pens that were designed exclusively for right-handers. Being a left-hander, this presented me with some challenges - my thick strokes came out thin and vice-versa.

This presents us with a bit of a problem, however. The best approach to education reform is an "evidence based" approach. But how do we get the evidence? That's right, through experimentation.

So, we have a dilema. I agree that our kids' education is not something to experiment with, but we also need to try new things if we are to progress. And there is nowhere near enough space left in this  to answer this question. Over to you.Edward,

"If I understand it correctly you went to a form of selective school and it appears that the "selective process" was inadequate."

Not quite. The primary school that I went to was a "demonstration school". It was situated next door to a teachers' college, and was used to demonstrate new teaching techniques and equipment to student teachers and other interested parties. It was not selective, but received more generous funding than your standard primary school and was staffed by teachers who were considered to be exemplars.

The high school I went to was selective. And the truth is that ALL selective processes are defective when it comes to predicting future academic performance. But I was not talking about my experiences in high school.

I should say at this point that my experience of school was overwhelmingly positive. I was lucky enough to encounter a number of truly brilliant and inspiring teachers and only ever got expelled once. Yes, I was caned over 100 times in my first year in high school, but this was the result of a "first to a hundred" contest that I was having with another kid in the class. He won, but he cheated - owning up to a misdemeanor that I had committed.

But I did witness the slow demise of kids considered to be geniuses in primary school, and that saddened me because academic performance seemed so much more important to them than it did to me.

I did well at school because it was fun for me. The school environment suited me, I discovered the knack of passing exams at an early age, was not scared of authority and was willing to question and challenge what I was being told.

But there are far too many kids that the school environment does not suit, who have the knowledge but struggle with assessment, who are scared of teachers and have been taught to bow down to authority. Generally they have a miserable time at school and, as a result, develop a hostiliy to academic learning and a deep resentment of those who have managed to do well out of the school system.

In effectively alienating these people from education, we not only condemn them to a sub-optimal quality of life, but make our society more vulnerable to socially destructive influences like populist, right-wing politicians.

We can do better, and we should do better.Edward,

"I disagree with your hypothesis that humans are naturally cooperative."

Not a hypothesis - more of an axiom.

You see, there is no other possible explanation for the fact that a bunch of naked apes from the bottom of the Great Rift spread out to occupy every continent on earth, build extraordinary, truly magnificient civilisations, reshape entire landscapes, fly men to the moon, land man-made objects on Mars, Venus and Titan, and even managed to send an artifact into deep, inter-stellar space.

We did not achieve this by stabbing each other in the back. we did it by giving each other a hand up when needed, or by climbing over the corpses of our victims. We did it by sharing our knowledge and  scarce resources and cooperating to build systems that allow us to use them more efficiently. We did it by preserving and extending our culture over the space of 100,000 years.

The corporate sector invests billions of dollars and millions of person-hours of labour in negative, anti-social and anti-human propaganda to hide the obvious truth from us. In your case, it appears that their efforts have not been wasted - and that is a shame because it means that most of the effort society put into educating you HAS been wasted.

You are not alone. And that is the real tragedy - so many people cut off from what is rightly theirs by the deceptive, anti-human propaganda of the corporate sector.michelle,

"You sound like someone who does not score well in IQ tests but is good at something else."

How do you know, you have never heard me.

It is unwise to make assumptions. In fact, my IQ scores led to my being cursed with the label "gifted", which has always led me to doubt the validity of IQ tests. You see, I have never felt terribly smart at all. But I have always been in awe of the practical intelligence of the tradesmen in my life, and wondered why their type of intelligence is not considered to be of the same order of someone who happens to be a good academic student.

I've worked in all sorts of professions, and one thing that has always impressed me is how many intelligent people there are whose unique talents are never recognised, simply because their type of intelligence doesn't fit the stereotypes. We are wasting a hell of a lot of talent by defining intelligence too narrowly and disregarding most of the cleverness of our fellow human beings.

So I suppose that my comments could be interpreted as "sour grapes", but I consider myself very lucky to be one of the few who are actually suited to academic pursuits and for whom IQ tests tend to be tailored. I'm just glad that I am at least clever enough to see that my "intelligence" is nothing special - and neither is anyone else's.michelle,

I suppose that I should also explain exactly what I mean by equivalence. I used the term very deliberately, because I was not claiming that everybody is of equal intelligence.

Having "equal" intelligence as someone else means that you have EXACTLY THE SAME intelligence (both in quanitity and qualities). Equivalence is a bit more nuanced, and a lot more useful.

To say that two people are of equivalent intelligence is to say that their intelligence, while not being identical, is of equal value. That is to say that the intelligence used by a plumber and drainer to correctly plan a sewerage system to achive optimal flows, or the intelligence used by a bus driver to maintain a schedule in busy city traffic is equally important to society as the intelligence of a brain surgeon or nuclear physicist.

One of the most important roles of a teacher is to identify the special intelligence possessed by each of his or her students, and to develop the strategies required to fully develop these talents in a manner that will enrich the life of the student for as long as they live. This is not an easy job, but it is difficult to think of a more important one. Which is why it is such a pity that we value the work of advertising people (professional liars) more than that of teachers.michelle,

"I would be very interested in your definition of 'intelligence' - it does not appear to align with the commonly accepted definition."

Are you talking about the real "commonly accepted definition", or are you simply assuming that your understanding of the term is the same as the "commonly accepted definition"?

Intelligence has a number of different definitions. In one sense, it can just mean "information about a specific thing" - as in "military intelligence". But in the sense that I am using the word, it means a capacity to understand systems, analyse problems and develop solutions that are appropriate to the problem.

Consider the following problem: you are stuck in a room with a form that you have to fill out. Your intelligence will be ranked according to the answers you give.

Consider another problem: you are stuck in the middle of arid lands without water, shelter or tools, and you need to survive.

Both of these can be seen as "intelligence tests". Bot are culturally weighted. In the first example, you would expect a person raised in a situation in which forms are common and the folly ranking intelligence is mistaken for wisdom, the first test would be no problem to you, but it would be incomprehensible to a traditional hunter-gatherer who lives on and with the land. In the second example, a person raised in the 'burbs would struggle to survive, while a traditional hunter-gatherer who grew up in the area would see no problem.

Human beings are naked apes with every few physical advantages. Our great advantage over all other known life forms is that our intelligence is not confined within individual brains or individual lifespans. Our unique intelligence is created by the interaction of our brains and minds with the "meme" of humanity. So it makes no sense to see one human being as smarter or dumber than the next. If someone appears to you to be a dummy, chances are that the fault is with your ablity to perceive or appreciate intelligence in general rather than a particular, arbitrarily selected, type of intelligence that happens to conform closely with your own.Orion,

"I don't know where these silly myths about Albert Einstein, a theoretical physicist, come from. In fact Einstein excelled at mathematics,"

but not arithmetic.

Apart from being quite good at maths and physics, Einstein was famous for three other things: one of the most impressive moustaches of modern times, his habit of turning up to university in his bedroom slippers, and his inablity to correctly calculate the change he shoud receive for his tram fare. This made him particularly famous and popular with tram conductors.

We are all geniuses and dunces simultaneously. Nobody is uniformly intelligent across all areas of human intellect and endeavour. Even polymaths like Benjamin Franklin have weaknesses and specialities.

Some of the things that humans are good at are recognised by us as signs of intelligence, and others aren't. There is no real logic to this. In Eire, the ability to walk backwards in a dead straight line was once seen as a valuable skill and those who could perform it were accorded special status.

I'm working in IT at the moment. So, you could say that I "work with computers" and, in many people's eyes, that makes me clever. But I have also driven buses and worked as an offsider on a truck. I consider my ability to navigate a bus through traffic, pick up and drop off passengers, and turn up at the terminus within 30 seconds of the scheduled time on a consistent basis to a far more impressive skill than  anything that I can do with computers (and believe me, I've done some pretty cool things with computers). But who values such skills? Why is one seen as a sign of cleverness and the other just "doing ones job"?

In reality, intelligence is in the eye of the beholder. It has more to do with which skills we value than the capacity of the individual.Jade,

"It's also entirely possible that those children you went to school with were not provided the appropriate opportunity to develop their skills, leading to atrophy of their intellectual capacity."

Except that this wasn't what happened. Its just that the kids who showed early promise were not really that bright. The fault was more in the way we see intelligence than in any failing to provide "appropriate opportunities" on the part of their school.

You see, the school I went to was what was called a "demonstration school". It had a teachers' college next door, and received more generous resourcing than your average public school, and was viewed as a "centre of excellence". The "special" kids who showed such early promise were simply kids who were well suited to the type of learning provided by the education system in the 1960s. As a result they did well while in that particular environment, but struggled when exposed to a different learning environment in high school. Those who persisted into tertiary education foundered quickly.

The simple fact is that all new human beings are "gifted". One of the important skills of a teacher is to be able to identify and draw out the special "gifts" of each student, not just to pick the low-hanging fruit. Every child attending school deserves the same level of attention and it is offensive in the extreme to suggest that children possessing one or two particular talent should be given favourable treatment by the school system.

Schools are not factories producing good exam results, they are EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS, and their role is to ensure that all citizens have the necessary knowledge, skills and tools both to make use of what our society has to offer, and to be of use to society. "Picking winners" is not a valid educational strategy.Roxy,

"I'm sure there have been "failures" at the Institute of Sport that have not gone onto better things,"

The Insitute of Sport is NOT an educational institution. It is a specialised TRAINING institution for "ELITE" sportspeople and, as such, is largely a waste of public money. The money we squander on this ridiculous conceit could be far better spent on engaging more Australians in sports as participants rather that couch-bound spectators. Who cares whether someone swims 100 meters in 10 seconds or 10.00001 seconds? What difference does this make to anyone's life. What if the clock is simply not as accurate as we thought it was? But if the same few million dollars that is spent on shaving thousandths of a second off a lap, or adding a nanometer to the height of a high-jump had been spent on ensuring that those who are not gifted at sports do not drift away from physical activity and end up as "Norms", just think of the benefits in terms of general well-being, happiness and harmony, not to mention the savings to the health budget.

The problem with "elite" training programmes is just that: they are training programmes, not education. When you take a kid out of an ordinary, comprehensive, public school and put them into an "advanced" programme for "gifted" children, you are effectively denying them the opportunity to pursue an education, and condemning them to specialised training. The worst thing that you can do to a kid is to isolate them from their comrades, or to make them feel "special". Streaming "bright" kids into special programmes simply convinces them that the skills and talents that they possess are more important or worthy of praise than those possessed by others. This is a terrible thing to do to anyone, because it effectively builds up barriers between them and their fellow human beings and necessarily limits the scope of their enjoyment of life.

People will always get plenty of opportunities to show off their academic talents as adults, if they so choose. But childhood and school are for LEARNING the important lessons of life, and it is wrong to deny kids this opportunity simply because they precociously display a particular talent.gd,

"Oh please stop going on about Finland."

OK, how about Cuba. Small country in the Caribbean, few resources, blockaded and prevented from trading by the most powerful and spiteful nation on earth, held back by a history of corrupt neo-colonial governments and organised crime. In the space of fifty-odd years, this tiny nation has gone from levels of adult literacy that we about average for third-world countries, to lead the world in terms of university graduates per capita.

Like Finland, Cuba has a single education system with little or no private participation. Education is seen as a fundamental right of the child rather than simply as a favour to future employers.

A friend of mine has recently returned from a trip that took in, among other places, the United States and Cuba. In New York, he was asked by a taxi driver where he was from. When he said that he was from Australia, the taxi driver responded enthusiastically. It seems that he had developed a love of Australian literature while studying English literature at university. Miles Franklin was his favourite author. In New York, his taxi driver complimented him on being able to speak English so well - he thought that his mother tongue was German.

Now, some would see a highly educated person driving a taxi as a waste of an education. But the Cubans are smarter than that. They know that education cannot be wasted, and that a taxi driver who is able to access, appreciate and enjoy the delights of English literature is more likely to live a happy and fulfilled life than one who struggles to fill out a Lotto form.

Education is sort of like seasoning. It is a "flavour enhancer" for life. Just as most foods are palatable without seasoning, life is bearable without an education. But, just as judicious seasoning can uncover and enhance the gastronomic delights of eating, education can open up a whole world of happiness that would otherwise remain inaccessible.

The Cubans and the Finns succeed because they know what education is for. We fail because we haven't a clue.Helvi,

"According to her it does not matter who is in power in Finland, all sides value good education, they don't chop and change like here; high standards matter to all..."

The really big difference, apart from the exiistence of a national concensus on the importance of education, is that the Finns have taken the time and effort required to see the problem clearly, identify what is important and what is not, and produce a system that works.

It seems that we still don't have any sort of agreement on the most fundamental question of all: why have an education system? - what is education for?

Until we can answer that question, simple questions like: who are the stakeholders? are subject to political and ideological manipulation. This leads to all sorts of groups who are NOT stakeholders having their demands and whinges catered for by the education system to the detriment fo the real stakeholders.

So, what is education for? I suggest that the primary role of education is to ensure the persistence of culture - not any particular culture, but culture itself. It does this by providing the basic building blocks of human intellect, and then supporting new humans as they use these "building blocks" to build an understanding of the world and their place in it. If our education system is producing happy, well-adjusted young adults, who understand their rights and responsibilities, are well-connected to their culural heritage (not just the Judeo-Christian bit), confident and capable in addressing and solving new problems and challenges, and capable of forming and maintaining meaningful personal relationships, then it is diong its job.

The fact that it isn't suggests that we have something to learn from the Finns whan it comes to education.gerard,

"Give teachers dignity and prestige on equal level to doctors, lawyers.

It is simple."

When I was at uni, I remember reading a fascinating article about an attitudinal study performed in a number of western countries, as well as the Soviet Union. The study examined the relative social status of various professions. As you would expect, the results from western nations placed doctors, managers, bankers and various types of celebrities (sports stars, movie stars, rock stars etc) at the top, and nurses, teachers, manufacturing workers, child and aged care workers and so on, much further down the list.

The funny thing was that it was very different in the Soviet Union, where the most respected professions included nurses, child and aged care workers, paramedics, teachers, construction, manufacturing and agricultural workers, scientists, cosmonauts and, interestingly enough, politicians. Doctors, lawyers and managers occupied a similar place on the Soviet "league table" to that occupied by nurses, teachers etc. in western "league tables".

The difference is pretty easy to explain. In the Soviet Union, it was the people themselves who decided which activities and professions were most important or most worthy. In western nations, this decision is made by an abstract entity we know as "the market".

This creates all sorts of bizarre contradictions in our society. Here's a good one:

I'm not sure how much James Packer made last year, but I do know that a huge chunk of his income came from his gambling interests. But most of us consider that gambling is a vice and that our society would be better off without it, so it must be said that the contribution of gambling to the achievement of our ends as a society is negative. Society would be better if Mr Packer simply accepted an unemployment benefit and did nothing.

As I said, I am not sure how much we paid Mr Packer last year, but I suspect that you could run MSF for a year on it.greg,

The study was conducted among the PEOPLE of the Soviet Union, not among the government (which was elected in a democratic manner that has many advantages over our own electoral system). The sponsors of the study were interested in how INDIVIDUAL HUMAN BEINGS ranked various professions and vocations. They found a fairly common pattern in western countries, but a marked difference in the Soviet Union, where people were free to make up their own minds free from a constant barrage of corporate propaganda (aka "advertising").

It appears that the major difference was the absence of pervasive social conditioning in the Soviet Union, when compared to the constant barrage of advertising and so-called "popular culture" (supplied pre-packaged by the corporate sector) to which we are subjected.

Governments are not the only entities capable of eroding social values and democracy with propaganda. In western society, corporations now have far more power than governments.

The people of the Soviet Union got to elect their government and their government was both the highest authority and the most powerful entity in the country. In western society we vote every few years for governments that are subservient to the whims and demands of UNELECTED corporations.

When it comes to democracy, the people of the  USSR had it right - it is we who have squandered the legacy of Franklin and Jefferson.Monty,

"It was reported today Mr Abbott was impressed by a school in Brooklyn USA where the curriculum was determined by Microsoft. "

Yes and I suppose that it is a mere coincidence that one of the major promoters of the corporate takeover of education is an ex-Australian by the name of Rupert Murdoch, whose stable of corporations includes several "educational services" companies who are the main beneficiaries of the "Charter School" movement (a political lobby advocating the privatisation-by-stealth of public schools under the guise of "greater local autonomy") which was established and is funded by Murdoch.

And I suppose that it is a mere coincidence that, top and centre of the Tories education policies, you will find an urgent imperative to provide "greater local autonomy" for public schools.

Murdoch already holds monopoly control over what news we hear and what news we never get to know about. Now it appears that he also wants control of our schools.

Goebbels, if he were still alive, would be kicking himself in the backside (no mean feat) for not thinking of it himself.dont,

"To insist their work be confined to corporate interests means it is taken away from human, cultural and societal avenues."

Indeed. If this was the approach taken in the post-war era, we would never have landed human beings on the moon, there would be no such thing as the Internet, teflon and velcro would not exist...and so on.

Corporations are great at EXPLOITING the fruits of research, but the simple fact is that the pure scinece and mathematics required as a foundation for this research are impossible for a corporation to assimilate into its agenda. The requirement of corporations to produce positive results on a yearly balance sheet is entirely incompatible with the way in which new scientific knowlege is produced or discovered.

We need to get this into perspective. Science was around for millenia before there was any such thing as a corporation. And science will still be around when corporations are nothing more than a shameful stain on our distant past. Corporations are nothing more than abstract devices that are SUPPOSED to exist to SERVE HUMAN BEINGS. They are simply tools, like lwnmowers or scissors. We mow our lawns when we feel the need, not when our lawnmower tells us to. We should educate our children according to THEIR needs, not those of the corporations.Robert,

"Most of their more sensible recommendations are already being long implemented (the phonics method for example). "

If you want to train a nation of illiterates, using phonics as a teching tool in schools is an excellent way of doing it.

Phonics is a REMEDIAL technique, used in ADULT EDUCATION to provide illiterate adults with the skills they need to make sense of the written word. It is NOT a tool for teaching literacy (which is a hell of a lot more than the mere ability to read and write).

Literacy is as much an attitude as it is a skill. It is all to do withthe way in which you relate to recorded information. It used to be that we could get away with equating literacy with reading and writing, because there was only one way to record information. Now there are many ways of recording information, each as important and as useful as the next, and you cannot be truly literate simply by knowing how to interpret symbols written on paper.

Reading is a recreational activity, and this is how it should be approached in school education. It should not be seen as a requirement, but rather as a reward. Substituting phonics instruction for a proper grounding in literacy will guarantee a generation of Australians who can read everything and understand nothing.

Not everybody will be able to pick up the skills required for genuine literacy and, in such cases, phonics is a good remedial tool that, while not capable of making someone literate, can at least teach them to interpret the written word on a functional level. But using phonics as an INTRODUCTION to the wonderful world of human literature immediately makes that world inaccessible to the student. And denying anyone access to their heritage in such a way is nothing short of a crime against humanity.michelle,

"When did reading become an optional extra in life?"

Who said that recreation is an "optional extra"? Recreation is as important to the human psyche as work and learning. It is a VITAL part of our lives.

The simple fact is that you can learn to read in a mechanical fashion, but this does not make you literate. As I said earlier, literacy is an ATTITUDE, not a skill. And you cannot achieve literacy through training.

SO, how do we become literate? Well in terms of textual literacy, the best way is to approach reading as a recreation - or as a key to the recreational opportunities provided by access to 100,000 years of accumulated human knowledge and culture. In fact, this is the ONLY way in which one can become truly literate. An ability to interpret symbols on paper is useless without an ability to correctly interpret AND APPRECIATE what is written on both an intellectual and emotional level.

Of course, things are a bit more complicated now because there are so many different ways of recording and retreiving information available to us, all with their own strengths and weaknesses. They are further complicated by the fact that so much of the information that floods into our heads on a daily basis is deliberately designed to deceive us (advertising), which means that literacy these days must include an understanding of the various deceptive devices used by advertisers and the other wormtongues of the corporate sector, and strategies to counteract them and limit the damage done to our psyche by this pollution. In other words, critical skills, the ability to deconstruct and analyse sophistry and other rhetorical and psychological devices, and an ability to do this across a range of media and formats, are vital components of literacy for the modern human being.

Reading, apart from being a recreational activity, is simply a COMPONENT of literacy. It is important because it is a very effective way of retreiving information recorded as text on paper but, with the development of the next generation of human/computer interface, it will probably decline somewhat in importance for this purpose. But literacy will still be as important as ever. We need to start expanding our horizons if we are to preserve the gift of literacy in the long term.jay,

"More important than a national curriculum is that of national assessment. If there is good, consistent assessment, then the teaching will be to that assessment."

"Teaching to assessment" is a BIG part of the problem, not the solution.

We need to get rid of the idea that schools are like petrol stations: you pull in, fill up your head with information, and drive away. This is not how human beings learn.

Human beings are born with very few "instinctive behaviours", but one of the strongest is that of satisfying our curiousity. We can't help it. As soon as we are born we start to learn. All that schools have to do is to facilitate this natural behaviour - it really is that simple.

So what do we do instead? We forget entirely that human beings are absolute fools for learning and new knowledge, and pretend instead that human beings are naturally resistant to learning and must be tricked, cajoled or intimidated into accepting what we deem as what they need to learn. One of the mechanisms is called "assessment" - via which we pretend that learning has no intrinsic value past the successful negotiation of examinations. In effect, we replace real learning with Pavlovian conditioning.

Every school in the world should have the same motto: "LET THEM LEARN!". We need to stop putting false hurdles in the way of natural human behaviour. The urge to learn is strong in new humans and we waste huge amounts of energy in killing this drive and replacing it with compulsion. It's quite an achievement to turn an naturally inquisitive creature into one who is resistant to learning, but our schools do a marvelous job of it. But is this really what we want our schools to do?applaud,

"Steve, but I believe that students at secondary level rarely come up with truly original ideas."

They are probably more likely to come up with an original idea than are adults, simply because their minds have not yet been ossified by the strictures placed upon human beings by the contradictions of capitalist society.

You are most likely to get an original idea from a two-year-old, who is unaware of the practicalities of life. You see, that's part of the problem: we need to limit the scope of our thinking in order to survive from day to day. Experience teaches us which lines of thought are likely to produce practical solutions and, over time, these lines of thought become hard-wired.

What De Bono mistakenly calls "lateral thinking" is simply a matter of reconnecting with our childish innocence to re-expand the scope of our ideas. It is not a new way of thinking invented by De Bono, it is simply the way we think before we burden down our brains with excuses for why certain things are not possible.

A few years back, I was trying to explain to my seven-year-old nephew why we felt heat from the Sun, but not the moon. I drew a number of diagrams, and even used a mirror to demonstrate reflection. His four-year-old brother listened to everything I said, nodded in the right places, appeared to be assimilating all that I said. When I had finished my explanation, he turned to his big brother and said "the moon has more breeze" - as though this one sentence neatly summarised everything that I had said.

Now that's what I call "originality". He was wrong, but there is no doubting the uniqueness of his perspective. I didn't have the heart to correct him.

I have since used his perspective a number of times in solving all sorts of different problems, from IT to flat tyres, and it has led to some remarkably effective solutions. But I am still a little unsure of exactly what he meant. Isn't that odd!Steve,

"How in God's name can an idea be original, if you've got to quote ideas that are already out there?!!!"

Thanks so much for your thoughtful and insightful reply.

The question you ask, albeit rhetorically, is actually quite a complicated one to answer.

You see, the question of originality is complicated by the fact that every idea we come up with is based, at least in part, on an edifice of ideas built up over 100,000 years of human society (the "meme"). In this sense, the old saying "there is nothing new under the Sun" is pretty much spot on. So, if we are to get any value from the concept of originality, we must first accept that no idea can be completely new. If there is such a thing as originality, we are more likely to find it in the ways in which different people relate to the "meme" and put it to use in the solving of contemporary problems.

On the subject of requiring quotes and references in essay work and such, it must be said that there is a place for this in scholarly research. Quotes can provide examples of what you are talking about that can illustrate a point. They can also be used to show that an idea is not new, by pointing to an earlier quote saying the same thing. And this can legitimately feature in an original work.

But this is not well explained to school students, many of whom draw the conclusion that the validity of an argument is dependent on the authority of its sources, rather than the cogency of its logic. This makes them easy victims of "arguments from authority" in later life.

Asimov has some interesting things to say on the subject. He touches on it in later volumes of the Foundation series, and in a number of essays collected under the title of "Asimov on Science".Chris,

"The report, written by Kevin Donnelly and Kenneth Wiltshire, identifies a stark absence of Australia's Judeo-Christian and Western Civilisation heritage in the curriculum."

Actually, what the hand-picked culture warriors found was what you would expect in a mature and balanced curriculum: the "Judeo-Christian and Western Civilisation heritage" being given coverage proportionate to its contribution to world history and the development of human society.

It is not difficult to see why people like Gallileo were persecuted for suggesting that the Earth was not at the centre of all creation. This is pretty much how we see "Judeo-Christian/Western Civilisation": as being at the centre of human history when, for much of the time, it has been a sideshow. Much of what we identify as being of "Judeo-Christian" or the product of "Western Civilisation" was appropriated from other cultures and civlisation.

Ask most westerners, even Australians, who discovered Australia. Most will erroneously tell you that is was Captain Cook - completely ignoring the fact that Australia was already well known by the Chinese, Polynesians and the Malays, and that many of the nations of northern Australia traded regularly with our neighbours to the north. The Portugese and Spanish also reached Australia years before. Cook was not even the first Englishman to reach Australia - just the first respectable one.

We inherited our alphabet from Phoenecians, our numbering system from the Arabs, the philosophical schools upon which our modern understanding of the world is based were imported from the East by the early Greeks. Even most of the Western diet has its origins outside of the Western Empire.

Christianity is simply an amalgamation of Judaism and Stoicism (a Greek philosophical school heavily influenced by Persian philosophy).

Western civilisation is a jumble of second-hand stuff, in many cases plundered from other civilisations. If we really want to understand the "Judeo-Christian/Western" civilisation in which we live, we must learn about the cultures and civilisations from which it has been cobbled together. As a matter of fact, once you understand these cultures and civilisations, there is very little left that you need to learn about "The West".gd

Fraid not. Our numbering system is known as "Hindu-Arabic". It comes originally from Arabia, and spread to India through trading. In fact, it is to the Arabs that we owe our concept of zero, as well as our numbering system. But that is largely beside the point.

The simple fact is that the Western Empire has sustained itself by assimilating features of other cultures, to the extent that much of what we see as typically western has its origins in other much older cultures.

As human beings, we have the right to access ALL of our cultural heritage, not just the bits selected for us by our political leaders.TC

"Our instititions, legal system, concept of liberty, freedom, democracy, seperation of church and state etc etc has come from the evolvement of Judeo-Christian culture."

Absolute, total tripe.

The fundamental principle upon which our society is based is the rule of law. And the rule of law as a concept has its origins in the Hamurabic Code - which is the first known document in which the powers of the state and rights of citizens are both codified and limited. It took thousands of years for any European culture to take a similar leap toward civilisation (the Magna Carta of 1215). In the intervening period, "Judeo-Christian" society was happy to accept such nonsensical notions as the absolute power of monarchy and unlimited state powers. And it was not until the eighteenth century that Paine and Franklin constructed their "Rights of Man" from the collected traditions of many societies and philosophical schools.

But the whole idea of a "Judeo-Chrisitan" society is a nonsense. Judaism and Christianity have always been fudamentally antagonistic, with Christians blaming the Jews for killing Jesus and Jews considering everyone else (but especially Christians) as inferior and unworthy. When the Christian "Inquisition" in Europe was persecuting, toturing and murdering Jews and non-conventional Christians, it was the African Islamic leaders of el Andalus (now called "Spain") who sheltered them and allowed them the same rights anad freedoms as Moslem citizens. When European Jews started to flee a growing tide of anti-Semitism in Christian Europe in the twenties and thirties, it was the Arabs of Palestine who gave them shelter.

How can we have a "Judeo-Christian" tradition when Christians and Jews have constantly been as each other's throats for the past 2100 years?Dodger,

"Is THAT all education is about?- producing commercail fodder?"

No, but tragically it IS what our school system is about.

The current view of schools is sort of like how we see a petrol station. Kids are delivered at one end and "fuelled up" with the information and behaviours required by their future employers. But minds are not petrol tanks.

We need remember what education IS for, and see our schools as a way of furthering those ends.

When a human being is born, it is born with certain inalienable rights, and one or two instinctive behaviours. One of these is to suck, and we put this to good use pretty quickly. Another is to seek out knowledge and attempt to understand the world in which we live, and we begin to exhibit this behaviour with the first breath we draw - or maybe even in-utero.

Now, one of the inalienable rights born with every new human being is known as the right to the "Pursuit of Happiness", and one of the requirements for the successful exercise of this right is access to the shared cultural heritage of humanity, and the ability to utilise, appreciate and enjoy this heritage to the fullest extent possible. And this is what education is for - to allow human beings to reach their full potential as human beings.

Schools are for human beings, not bosses. Their job is, or should be, to facilitate our natural, instinctive urge to learn. We don't need to be forced or tricked into learning - it is what we are designed to do in the first place. All schools need to do is to facilitate our natural curiousity by providing a grounding in the fundamental skills (criticism, rhetoric, logic and empathy), and facilitating the use of these skills in the formation of an understanding and appreciation of our world, our society and our universe.

The thing to do is to forget the chatterers who claim to be "stakeholders" in education (parents, religious groups and employers) and concentrate on the needs of the REAL stakeholders (kids, and society as a whole). It's what the Finns and Cubans have done, and it works.Dodger,

"Lat night I heard a hysterical Pyne rant about how we need to educate our kids to be able to "compete" with our Asian neighbours."

I cannot think of a worse disservice that you could possibly do to any kid is to tell them that another kid is their "competitor" simply because of where they were born in Asia. Why should they want to "compete"? Who says that they have to? What if they want to COOPERATE instead?

When you put a few kids together without any expectations or pressure, they will inevitably look for ways of having fun. They will collaborate and cooperate in order to maximise their fun. Enjoyment becomes a shared goal and its achievment a shared exercise. When one has a competitive advantage over another, they tend to look for ways to eliminate the advantage. They very rarely bother to keep score.

It seems a great pity that clods like Pyne want to destroy this natural human behaviour and replace it with something that you would expect from seagulls. Kids in Asia are not our kids' "competitors" - they are KIDS just like ours - potential collaborators, colleagues, helpers, friends, mentors, lovers, partners, comrades or even ambivalent strangers.

Pyne and his ilk should not be allowed to turn our kids into monsters. All kids have a right to be human, and to view their fellow human beings as allies, not rivals.whitey,

"The problem with the previous government was that a party sacking an incumbent first term prime minister was a stake through the heart of democracy."

No, you have it backwards. The Parliamentary caucus of the Labor Party elected Julia Gillard as its leader in a democratic election according to the rules of the Labor Party. There has never been any suggestion that any part of this process was improper. The Labor Party did not "sack an incumbent first term prime minister" - they replaced their parliamentary leader.

The Prime Minister of Australia is not an elected position. The Prime Minister is the person appointed by the Governor General to preside over Cabinet on his or her behalf. By convention, the Governor General will seek the advice of the House in appointing a PM, but they are not obliged to do so. In fact, the person appointed by the GG to be PM does not even have to be a member of Parliament. But they do have to demonstrate that they have the confidence of the House and, for this reason the GG will, by default, appoint the person who has been elected as the leader of the party with the most seats in the Lower House because this virtually ensures that they have the confidence of the House.

Now, each party in Parliament makes its decision via a process known as "caucusing". The rules by which each each caucus works is a matter for the members of each caucus, but all major parties currently in parliament have rules and procedures that conform with any sensible definition of "democratic process".

In replacing Kevin Rudd with Julia Gillard as its Parliamentary leader, the Labor caucus followed its rules to the letter. There was no variation from the democratic process.

As a result of the INTERNAL VOTE of the Labor Party, the Mr Rudd advised the GG that he could no longer guarantee that he had the confidence of the House and the GG withdrew his commission. If this is what you call "sacking", it was done by the GG, not the Labor Party. But it wasn't really a sacking at all.

I remember once asking my Sunday School teacher whether God answers all prayers. He replied "yes, but sometimes the answer is 'no'". Democracy is similar. It doesn't always deliver the outcomes we want as individuals.Chester,

" disagree, the decline goes back to John Howard's Government."

I disagree. The decline started in 1815, when a crooked militia marched up Bridge Street, Sydney, and placed Governor William Bligh under arrest. Ever since that day, Australian politics has been played out in the context of a struggle between patriots who see a future for Australia as an independent, confident, sovereign, affluent, happy and progressive member of the community of nations; and the "Quislings" who see Australia as a fertile environment for corruption and the satisfaction of greed.

So, Australian politics has ALWAYS been a contest between the nation-builders (Bligh, MacQuarie and Labor) and the corrupt(Rum Corps, Squatocracy, UAP, Liberal Party).

But, within this wider context, you are correct in identifying the rise of Howard as a low point in Australian politics (although Abbott is currently setting new lows). The big change made by Howard was in the relationship between the Liberal Party and Rupert Murdoch. His Faustian deal with Murdoch effectively made the Liberal Party a branch office for another of Murdoch's possessions - the US Republican Party. This was the first time that an Australian political party was taken over by foreign interests, and it is very disturbing to think that more than half of all the people sitting in Parliament, supposedly to represent us, are actually representing foreign interests.

Our best hope of an improvement comes in the form of the current ICAC inquiry, which has already weeded out a couple of rogue members of the Labor Party, and is now investigating INSTITUTIONAL corruption within the Liberal Party. What has been revealed already is sufficient to justify the party's deregistration. Further revelations should result in the prosecution of high-ranking individual members for the most serious crime anyone can commit against democracy: electoral fraud.Prof,

"Our model of democracy is a dud."

Yes and no.

It is important not to throw the baby out with the bathwater.

I think that it is fair to say that our experiment with liberal-democracy has been a failure. But this does not mean that there is anything wrong with democracy. It simply means that the model we chose (liberal-democracy) didn't work. But it was a creditable "first attempt" and we shouldn't feel too foolish.

The First World War was the last nail in the coffin for both liberal-democracy and capitalism. Our history since then has basically been a catalogue of "collateral damage" caused by their death-throes. And it has done HUGE damage to the world and its people over the space of one hundred years. Our climate is veering dangerously away from the norms that make our civilisation possible, our non-renewable resources are dangerously depleted, a significant proportion of the world's population is currently displaced and on the move, arable land is shrinking, deserts are spreading, mental illness is in plague proportions in advanced western nations, half the world is starving to death while the other half is eating itself to death...the list goes on and on.

I personally believe that striving for democracy is worthwhile, even though none of us will ever see the fruits of our efforts - nor our children or probably our grandchildren. I also believe that it is impossible to achieve democracy totally through institutions like Parliament. Democracy must come from the grass roots. It must be present in every interaction between citizen and state, but also between citizen and employer, citizen and vendor, citizen and citizen. It must be embedded in our economic relations. It must eliminate the possibility of coercive power.

We have been fobbed off with a political and electoral system that is one step up from voting for the winner of "Australian Idle"[error intended]. we can do better and we shoud do better. But we will do neither if we wait for politicians to do it for us.Evil,

"Two very different things."

Yes, they are. Just like advocating for reproductive choice for women is a different thing to advocating for a balanced budget, religious freedom or even free propeller caps for all. But they are all examples of free expressions of honestly held opinions, and if the fundamental principles of democracy mean anything to us, we will do all that we can to ensure that every citizen feels free to express their honestly held opinion, no matter how repugnant or scary that opinion may be.

You see, it's easy to stand up for someone's right to say something that you agree with. The real test of your commitment to democracy comes when you are in a position to constrain someone's right to say something with which you disagree, or which scares you. Mr Abbott and his henchmen have failed this test comprehensively.

If someone honestly believes that it is right to blow yourself up in a crowded bar or decapitate a hostage, they should be free to say so. But we should also feel free to raise counter arguments that demonstrate the folly of these views. It would also be very much in our interests if we could deprive hate mongers of the resonance their words carry as a result of our poor foreign policy decisions. The simple fact is that, when hate mongers describe our actions as "barbaric", they can point to plenty of examples to back up their claims. Every time an Israeli shell lands in a Gaza school or UN shelter, the weasel words of the hate mongers gather weight and force. Every time a "drone" destroys an Afghan or Yemeni home, their message gains momentum.

The words of the hate mongers would pose no threat if we did not work so hard to support their case. Taking away everyone's right to free speech is simply playing into their hands.Bruce,

"collateral harms of war, the opportunities lost, the futures deranged, the pain and suffering, the never being able to understand or to forget or forgive."

I think that these "costs of war" are pretty well understood. To be fair, I think that the authors probably assumed that we would already know that "war is hell". Their point appears to be that we are more likely to react negatively to a war if we understand its cost in dollars - which you CAN put on a graph. I personally think that they are on pretty safe ground.

Part of the problem is that, because very few of the lives lost or ruined by war have ever been Australians, we have a much more "gung-ho" attitude to the human costs of war. We have all heard the saying about how, on the nightly news, one Australian casualty is worth 10 white, Anglo non-Australian casualties, 50 white foreign langauge speakers, or 5000 dark-skinned casualties. A shop explodes in Rozelle and kills three innocent, white, anglophone Australians and our newspapers are filled with it. We buy flowers and leave them to rot in the street in an attempt to establish impromtu shrines. Meanwhile, thousands of dark-skinned, non-English speakers are struck down with an incurable, highly contagious plague and we don't even start to worry until a white, English-speaking US citizen catches it. Julie Bishop would like to help but it is all too hard. So much easier to bomb villages of swarthy-skinned Arabic-speakers for strictly "humanitarian" reasons. And we will only object if it might result in higher taxes.

I'm not altogether certain that we have our priorities right.EM,

"The $29 billion is for running costs and contingencies."

That's right. It is not cheap to have a significant proportion of your adult workforce sitting around doing nothing for most of the time. But this is an unavoidable consequence of maintaining a standing army. We should not be quibbling over the cost. If we honestly believe that we need a standing army, we should accept that this will be expensive. If we decide that we do not need a standing army, the question of cost is irrelevant.

"It is incumbent upon Tony Abbott to TELL THE TRUTH regarding the costs."

Not only that, but after all the fuss he raised over the lack of a "cost-benefit analysis" for the NBN (which was clearly needed and had clear benefits), it is incumbent upon him to produce a similar document outlining the costs, likely benefits and increased risks resulting from this adventure.yank,

"Maybe we can due without the subs for awhile"

Actually, the subs represent the most useful piece of kit that we have when it comes to military hardware. But Abbott has managed to get this one wrong too.

You see, our submarine fleet is an important strategic resource and is vital to ensuring that we know what is going on around our shores. They would also play an important role if it ever became necessary to defend our offshore oil facilities. But the greatest value of all provided by Australia having submarines is economic, not military. But, for this to be true, the submarines would have to be built in Australia.

Ship building, together with vehicle (car, bus and truck) manufacture, provide the "scaffold" around which a vibrant and self-sustaining manufacturing sector can be built. Without this "scaffolding", local manufactures have to rely more heavily on exports for their income and this makes them highly vulnberable to the wild fluctuations in the relative value of currencies and economic activity in other countries. In comparison to this, the military and strategic value of the submarine fleet is clearly secondary to its economic and social value.

It doesn't matter if we can get cheaper submarines "off the shelf" from Japan. If we were just doing this for the sake of having a few submarines, it would make sense to "shop around". But, when the main contribution made by the submarines is in supporting local industry, it makes no sense at all to have them built outside of Australia.

I think that it would be a mistake to abandon the upgrade of our submarine fleet - in fact, I believe that it makes perfect sense to pay a little more to have the new boats built in Australia. In buying them overseas, all that we get is submarines. Build them in Australia, and we keep our manufacturing sector, and our kids can look forward to a brighter career future than simply making coffee or pushing hamburgers over a counter.

If we really need to save money we could pull out of the failed JSF programme and buy Sukois that can easily shoot the JSF out of the sky, and come at less than half the price.AE

"At least those people aren't getting a massive taxpayer subsidy, those businesses succedd or fail on their own."

This is just nonsense. Small business is the most heavily subsidised sector of our economy. Without the generous support of the taxpayer and their employees, most small businesses would fail within a month.

But it is also irrelevant. Small businesses are "enterprises". They are not human beings. Their existence is, or should be, entirely contingent on how useful they are to society.

Some small businesses are very useful to the economy. For example: Australia had a vibrant and bouyant small business community that produced high-quality components for local vehicle manufacturers. The presence of a local market for their goods provided them with the foundation they needed to export their products to other vehicle manufacturers overseas. These businesses employed apprentices and trainees who were able to use their training to build useful and rewarding careers.

But not all small businesses are the same. Some exist because there is a real need for the services or goods that they produce. But the goods and services provided by many could be provided in a more efficient way by a larger enterprise, or would not be greatly missed by society if they were not provided. And some small businesses exist simply to exploit "niches" created by massive misallocation of resources and inefficiencies in the wider economy that we would be better off solving, not tolerating or indulging.

It is possible to allocate resources in an economy in a manner that ensures that the most important needs are always satisfied before resources are expended on the indulgence of trivial wants. And it is possible to ensure that all young citizens can look forward to careers that are both socially useful and personally rewarding. It is just that our economy does not do either of these things.

We CAN do much better, and we SHOULD do much better. There really are no excuses for neglecting human citzens for the sake of small business.Rudinger,

"Australia already spends $29bn on defence a year."

If you decide to have armed forces, you should accept that it will be expensive.

Our armed forces are hopelessly inefficient and waste money and resources like they are going out of fashion. And, in this, they are exactly the same as any armed force that has ever marched on the earth (or its stomach if you prefer). Armed forces are, by their nature, wasteful. Their procedures, techniques and abilities are optimised for situations in which cost and fiscal responsibility are not relevant considerations.

The greatest source of inefficiency is simply the fact that soldiers rarely have anything useful to do. Their main job is to maintain their readiness for the tiny possibility that their skills may be needed at some stage during their career. Many end up in pointless pursuits like the cliched "rock painting" exercise.

So we have to make a choice: have armed forces and accept that they will cost a fortune and, most of the time, return nothing of use; or accept that whether or not we have armed forces is unlikely to influence the decision to attack us or the likelihood of the attack succeeding, and cut our costs by abolishing the armed forces.

If we choose to keep our armed forces, we must be prepared to accept the cost. If we choose to become adults and leave behind our security blanket, we must be prepared to rely more heavily on diplomacy and international cooperation, for our security.

Considering that the US spends more per capita on their military than any other nation, and yet have lost every war they have started since WW2, it is difficult to see how we get value for money from our military services. Perhaps we would be better to invest more heavily on civil defence and let the military services conduct raffles and barbeques to raise funds for their weapons.Cyn,

I think that your assessment is reasonably accurate, although I would not be relying too much on our ability to establish garrisons on the territory of our neighbours to the north. We were completely outmanouevred on the diplomatic front by the Chinese during the wasted years of Howardism and, despite some brilliant "catch-up" work done by our diplomatic corps under the Rudd and Gillard government, we are still a long way behind. It is more likely that nations between Australia and China would see their loyalties lying with China than with Australia. The fact that we are seen largely as the US' "deputy sheriff" in the Pacific (thanks Howard) certainly doesn't help our cause.

Apart from the obvious problem of maintaining supply lines, the  major problem faced by the Chinese in any plans they may have for expansion is the extreme fragility of Chinese society.

China was doing well for a while. Its people were united by a cause and their government was committed to the same cause. This ended in the 1980's with Deng's counter-revolution, which effectively placed the centralised control exercised by China's government in the hands of international capital. This has converted a socialist revolution into a fascist dictatorship. Fascist states are inherently unstable and, in China's case, this problem is amplified by the fact that China is an amalgamation of hundreds of distinct ethnic groups and regions, many of which have national aspirations themselves. Deng's counter revolution has also denied tens of millions of Chinese citizens access to things like health care, education, aged care, housing and guaranteed employment that they had come to take for granted during the revolution.

When it comes to determining the outcome of a war between nations, the military might of the antagonists is probably about 1% responsible for the outcome, while the relative strengths of civil societies and diplomatic relationships with other countries are about 99% responsible. The US has been taught this lesson many times since WW2, but is yet to learn it.Ann,

"Really, considering we are most likely to be invaded by China in the future, there's nothing we could do against them anyway."

I am inclined to dissagree with your first contention, but I definitely agree with you on the second.

If we wish to identify the countries most likely to attempt an invasion of Australia, we should be looking for really stupid countries and putting them at the top of the list. China is the oldest nation on earth. It is not stupid. The Chinese know how big Australia is, and how remote. They understand that military might is useless without logistical support. They understand the strategic dangers of long supply lines. The only possible danger of Chinese military action against Australian interests within Australia's metropolitan territory is that of possible attempts to take over oil rigs to our north, but the Chinese already have two different fights on their hands over oil-rich territories closer to home.

Japan is probably a greater danger. The Japanese economy is flatlining and there is a strong fascist tradition in Japanese politics. With the US doing everything it can to encourage Japan to abandon the pacifist protections of its constitution, it is likely that the re-emergence of Japanese imperialism will gather momentum and that the post-war experiment with western-style liberal democracy will founder. This will make Japan the type of stupid nation likely to engage in military adventurism.

But we concentrate too much on the threat of military invasion at our peril. The far greater danger to our sovereignty comes from the operations of multi-national corporations who, in some cases are more powerful than our governments, aren't constrained by national boundaries and laws, and who have the enthusiastic cooperation and collaboration of our governments.

Australia has never really been a sovereign nation, but what vestiges of sovereignty we did establish under Whitlam, Fraser, Hawke and Keating were either squandered by Howard or will be squandered by Abbott.

It is not foreign armies, but international capital and "free trade deals", that we should be defending ourselves against.JessC,

"I prefer the Swiss model. Every citizen should be prepared to defend the country."

There are some merits to this idea, but it does also have a downside.

The big downside of the Swiss model is that it requires all adult male citizens to keep a military assault rifle in their homes. Despite the fact that Swiss law also requires these weapons to be secured, Switzerland has one of the highest murder-by-firearm rates in the world (behind only Israel and the US, I think).

One of the most important, and most quickly forgotten, principles of the American Revolution was that the whole idea of a standing army was offensive to democracy, and that a civilised nation should rely on its citizens for defence against foreign aggression. The main reason for this is that a standing army can be used by those in power to defend that power against its own citizens, which defeats a central principle of democracy (that people should not be scared of government - governments should be scared of the people).

One of the really interesting things about the current state of affairs is that the US government has no legal power to maintain a standing defence force of any kind. The US President is designated as the "Commander in Chief" of the nation's military capacity, but this military capacity is supposed to be supplied, on an ad-hoc basis, by state militia.

To be honest, I am divided over the subject. On one hand, I gravitate toward the principle of governments being unarmed and the citizens being both armed and responsibile for the defence of the country. On the other I can see the dangers associated with training your entire adult population to kill, and then requiring them by law to keep guns in their houses.

But I can also see that the best defence of all comes not from military strength, but through diplomacy, international aid and GENUINELY FREE AND FAIR TRADE. We neglect these at our extreme perilJessC,

"And for those who wish to make a career out of military service the UN should be their employer."

I think that this was pretty much the model envisaged by the founding fathers of the UN, including our own Doc Evatt. If you look at the rhetoric surrounding the decision to send an international force to intervene in the Korean Civil War, it is rather clear that such intervention forces should be under the command of the UN, not individual nations. Actually, if you look at the Charter of the UN, it is clear that this is the case. The UN cannot, according to its own rules, authorise on member nation to attack another member nation (for example US-led "multinational" actions against Afghanistan, Iraq and Serbia.

I can see a great deal of merit in the idea of national armies being absorbed into an international peacekeeping and disaster relief force under the auspices and command of the UN, but not without considerable reform of the way in which the UN works (which bears little resemblance to the vision of people like Doc Evatt). The primacy of the General Assembly needs to be re-asserted and the Security Council (which is simply a committe of the General Assembly) should be cut back down to size. The "great powers" right of veto in the Security Council must be scrapped. Without these reforms, the effective commander of all international forces would be the Prsident of the US, who is not even allowed by his own constitution to have a standing army.

We cannot deny that corporations operate across national boundaries, that epidemics and natural disasters have no respect for borders, and that many of our most pressing problems are global, rather than national, in nature. But we have an extremely limited capacity to respond to these challenges in an effective because of the fragmented nature of our international society. This allows international capital to manipulate and bully national governments and to play the fortunes of one nation against those of another.

A more coordinated, international approach led by the UN is the obvious answer.anote,

"I am in favour of going to fight IS if the overall reason is right."

The problem is that nobody has really given ANY reason - right or wrong - for this latest Tory adventure. It is a complete mystery as to what this has to do with Australia. Sure, there are a few Australians who have chosen to head overseas for a bit of "military tourism", but this is not all that unusual. It has happened many times before, and I am sure that it will happen again. In some cases, they have gone with the blessing of the government (WW1, WW2, Korea, Vietnam, Israel.......) and in others they have done so against the wishes of the government. But how, exactly, does a few Austrailans heading overseas to fight for what they believe in pose such an existential threat to Australia that we would risk taking innocent lives in a far-off conflict, or exposing our brave, dedicated military personnel to unnecessary and avoidable harm?

The US could see no great point in Australia sending its troops and hardware half-way around the world, and had to be relentlessly pestered for an invite to the shooting match. The Iraqi government resisted the presence of Australian troops and have only just, reluctantly agreed to allow them in.

Menzies pestered the British until they let him get involved in the Suez Crisis (and he completely stuffed up), then went on to beg the US to invite Australia into Vietnam. Howard begged the US for an invite to the invasion of Afghanistan and Iraq. Abbott and Bishop have been working overtime to get us involved in this latest, pointless scuffle.

AUSTRALIA HAS NOT BEEN NEEDED IN ANY WAR. Australia's involvement in wars since WW2 has been historically irrelevant. The history books would read the same with or without our involvement. The only difference is in the moral and financial costs to Australia, and the damage caused by our inaction on the really important issues (ebola, malaria, malnutrition, polio, desertification of farmland, water security, mass extinctions, carbon pollution and the mental health epidemic sweeping "advanced" western nations).

It's all a matter of priority.anote,

"Australia should contribute to solving global problems and helping the disadvantaged according to its capacity."

I agree. There are plenty of higher priorites that we should be turning our attention to....like ebola.

It's quite a long time since we have had to deal with a pandemic, and it is possible that the severity of the situation in West Africa is entirely unprecedented in recorded history. This is a huge and unprecedented emergency that has already killed people in Europe and the US. It is difficult to see how Australia can continue to be unaffected in the long run. In fact it is safe to assume that an Australian hospital WILL be faced with the challenge of treating an eboloa patient and containing the infection.

Ebola has the potential, not just to kill lots of Africans who we don't know, but to bring the world economy to a grinding halt. If countries have to impose the same sort of quarantine restrictions that were in place when it took three months to cross the globe, it is difficult to see how international commerce as we know it could be sustained.

The conflict in Iraq is definitely a problem. But you are right to question whether it is the most urgent problem we face? Personally, I see the ebola outbreak, the re-emergence of polio in Pakistan and other Asian countries, the de-glaciation of the Tibetan plateau, the tens of millions of displaced people in the world, species extinctions, the continuing scourge of malaria, and the looming inundation of South Pacific island micro-nations by rising sea levels, as more urgent problems than possible sub-optimal regime change in Iraq.Warrior,

"So v:...we should scrap our entire defence force "

Is that what I said?

No, it isn't, is it.

What I said was that Australia has been involved in many wars and our involvement was only justified in one. Between 1939 and 1945 there was a clear and present need to defend Australia from the Japanese and the world from fascism. In fact, a large number of Australians saw the need before Australia got involved, and went to Spain of their own volition to support their Spanish comrades in the fight against fascism. Under current legislation, such heroic, altruistic acts in support of liberty, democracy and the dignity of humanity are illegal.

But WW2 was really the only time in which the deployment of Australian troops in foreign conflicts has been justified. Australia was under no threat from anywhere when we sent troops to the Sudan and South Africa. We were under no threat when we sent troops to France and Turkey in the 1914-18 Great European War (it was never a world war). We certainly had no business being in Palestine at the same time. we were not under any threat when we sent troops to Korea, and under even less of a threat when we joined the US in attacking the people of Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos, or when we joined the British in colonial expeditions in Indonesia and Malaya. We were under no threat when we joined the attack on the people of Afghanistan and Iraq.

According to international law, the use of military force is only justified in the case of a nation needing to defend its own metropolitan territory from agressive military action by a rival state. The defence of "self defence" under the UN Charter does not cover military action taken by a nation in defence of its "interests" in other nations, and neither does it cover actions madated by treaty obligations (eg: ANZUS).

I am not saying that we do not need an armed force to protect Australia - simply that this armed force shoud be used for protecting Australians from REAL THREATS like natural disasters and the remote possibility of aggreessive military actions against us, NOT as a "gun for hire" for the dominant colonial power of the day.Ann,

"When people cry about taxing religions "

I am afraid you have fallen into the intellectual trap set by the elite clergy to protect their priviledge from scrutiny. You see, no government on earth has ever tried to tax a religion. No government on earth has ever tried to tax a scientific discipline or philosophical tradition either. There is a very good reason for this: religions, scientific disciplines and philosophical traditions have no money. They exist entirely in our heads.

The closest example of anyone trying to tax a religion that I can found in history was when Calligula (or was it Nero? - I can never remember which looney) had his soldiers collect sea shells in compensation for a failed military expedition that was derailed by a storm at sea. Apparently he believed that he was effectively taxing Neptune. 

But the trick being pulled by elite clergy is to conflate the INSTITUTIONS that they control with the RELIGION used by the institution to justify its existence. The Catholic Church is not Christianity - it is a business that exploits Christians. Christianity, like Islam, Buddhism and every other religion, is a personal affair. It is something that we believe or disbelieve on an individual basis. 

When somebody suggests that a mega-corporation like the Catholic or Anglican churches should pay tax, clerical elites squeal that the government is taxing religion, and that this somehow infringes on the right of each individual to choose and practice a religion (practice makes perfect, you know). But this is simply all part of the confidence trick.

Religious freedom is an INDIVIDUAL HUMAN RIGHT, not an institutional priviledge. Taxation of business entities like the Catholic and Anglican Chruches is not an infringement of this right. Banning women from wearing the burqa IS an infringement, not of this right, but of their fundamental right to self-expression, and our implied right to maintain links with our cultural heritage.Alan,

"The current conflictt is largely a religous thing"

No, it has nothing to do with religion. The "current conflict" is simply a chapter in a long-running war between Europe and the Arab world that began with the Greeks and Romans. And, even back then it had nothing to do with religion (although this has often been used as the pretext for European aggression).

The real question is not so much who should pay for this latest adventure, but whether or not we should be involved in the first place. If our involvement is justified, we should not quibble about the cost. Military action is expensive by its very nature. If we feel that attacking the people of a country several thousands of miles away is a good idea, then we should be prepared to shoulder the cost as a nation. If we decide that it is not a good idea, there is no cost to quibble over.

I would imagine that there are many Christians who are as opposed to the war as you or I am, or even more so. Should they be asked to pay for the mistakes of people like Abbott, who abuse their religion for political purposes?

We have to be fair about this. The people beheading Arabs and the occasional westerner in Iraq and Syria are doing so for political, not religious reasons. We cannot rightly blame Islam for the actions of those who take its name in vain. And neither can we blame all Christians for the exploitation of their faith for political purposes by Abbott and his fellow right-wing populists.

Terrorists who behead people in the Middle East try to justify their actions by pretending to be Moslems. Terrorists who intimidate pregnant mothers, murder doctors and bomb family planning facitlites in the United States hide behind Christianity to justify their unjustifiable actions.

Religion is an easy target that is exploited by the "pious" to excuse their impiety and too often blamed by those of us who do not follow a faith for things that are not features of the religion in question (the burqa and genital mutilation are good examples of things that have nothing to do with Islam, but are often falsely associated with it).

Many people are turned away from religion by the bigotry and intellectual strictures placed on the faithful by elite clergy. There seems little point in simply replacing religious bigotry with secular bigotry.AGB,

"Tony Abbott won the right to form government. 
As PM, his remit includes deciding when to deploy the ADF."

Wrong on both counts, I am afraid.

Tony Abbott was elected as the Member for Warringah - that is all. This does not give him any special "rights", but it does give him quite a few obligations.

As the leader of the party which controls a majority of seats in the Parliament, Mr Abbott has also inherited the responsibilities associating with representing the Parliament to the Queen via the office of the Governor General. He is not OUR Prime Minister, he is the QUEEN's Prime Minister. Mr Abbott has not been given the "right to form a government" - the government was already formed and has been in existence since 1901. The only thing that has changed is the bums on the seats in Parliament. Parliament represents only a small part of the apparatus we know as "government" and is unusual in being subject to periodic recall (elections). Most of the government is unelected.

The Commander-In-Chief of Australia's armed forces is the Governor General, who excercises effective power over our armed forces on behalf of the Queen of England. A decision by Cabinet to deploy Australian troops is meaningless without Vice-Regal assent..

I suggest that, before you start to lecture others on how our system works, it would be a good idea to do some research and make sure that you know what you are talking about. As you say, ours is a REPRESENTATIVE system, not the presidential autocracy.AGB,

"You can look forward to casting your vote all over again in around 2.5 years."

Wishful thinking, or just pessimism?

The last election was a little over 12 months ago. This means that the next election is 2 years away, not 2.5.

You really need to do some homework on the basics of our political system.nnt,

"Re a war tax, the govt has a lot of slack in the tax system. With a little thought it will be easy to secure additional revenue without raising any taxes."

The government has already made it clear that it expects the poor to pay for this latest piece of military adventurism. Abetz, Abbott and Hockey have all spoken of their desire to shift the cost burden even further toward those on low incomes in order to pay for the war.

"The damage being done by ISIL needs a response and their genocide on escaping refugees"

Does ISIL "need a response", or is it more of a case of the interests of major arms and oil corporations will be advanced by a "response" to ISIL? Why does ISIL "need a response"? In fact, why does ISIL even exist? Does ISIL's existence have something to do with previous "responses" to previous "threats" created by previous "responses" to previous "threats" created by previous........do you get my drift?

In IT support, there is a concept known as D2T2. If somebody rings the help desk and complains that, every time they hit the "delete" key their work disappears, you tell them "D2T2" (Don't Do That Thing"). I am sure that if the head honchos in the State Department went to a foreign affairs help desk and complained that "every time we create a dissident movement to overthrow an unfriendly regime, it comes back and attacks us", the response would almost certainly be "D2T2".

Finally: I must take issue with your abuse of the word "genocide". Genocide refers to a deliberate and systematic campaign of extermination of an ENTIRE race, ethnicity or religious community.

ISIS is almost certainly guilty of mass murder and all sorts of crimes against humanity. This, in itself, is a heinous crime. But the word "genocide" should be reserved for genuine examples of the truly despicable crime of deliberately obliterating an entire population, like the Holocaust of WW2 and the extermination of Moabites, Philistines, Samaritans and other tribes by the Hebrews, which is celebrated in the Bible.

We have to be very careful with words like "genocide". Using them to raise an issue above its station simply dilutes the power and force of the word until it becomes entirely trivial.JohnC,

"Nothing would please our supreme leader more than to loudly advocate that disunity is death. "

I think that Shorten has very little choice than to do what he is doing at the moment - not so much as a defence against the "with us or against us" ploy, but simply because this is precisely what sensible, responsible opposition leaders do when the government declares some sort of national security emergency.

While there may be a considerable well of discomfort at Abbott's adventurism that could be tapped for short-term political advantage, Shorten should be congratulated for seeing the bigger picture and refraining from damaging the ability of future governments to react to real emergencies by creating a political crisis now. The convention of bi-partisanism on national security is simply too important to risk on a single issue, regardless of how important that issue may be in the short term.

Shorten's approach should not be seen as support for Abbott's adventurism, but rather as support for the institutions and conventions that define our democracy.

But it is very likely that Shorten's principled stance will play out well for the Labor Party. At the moment, we have a large part of our total air combat capacity sitting on the ground in the Middle East. It has been sitting there for two weeks. It is sitting there because the government sent it over there before there was any request for Australian help. Despite constant badgering of the US and Iraqi governments byu our doplimats and military top brass, it appears that we are not going to get the invitation to the turkey shoot that Ms Bishop assumed would be forthcoming.

It will not be long before people start to wonder what the hell our fighter jets are doing in Iraq when nobody has asked for them to be there. Then Mr Shorten will be in a position to hold the government to account for its failures.

There is no doubting that Shorten is playing a clever political game. And what makes it even cleverer is that he is doing the right thing.Dee

"I'm sick of clever political games."

It is not Bill Shorten's fault that doing the right thing by our democracy just happens to coincide with clever politics. This is a rare alignment and only a completely sociopathic dunderhead would deliberately do the wrong thing simply to avoid gaining advantage from doing the right thing.

If Bill Shorten attempted to make this into a party political issue at the moment, not only would he be exposing his party and his cause to the vitriol of the Murdoch Press (News Limited and its related enitities have a HUGE vested interest in the US Military-Industrial-Complex), but he would be establishing a precedent that would make it more difficult for a future Labor government to rely on bi-partisan support in a future genuine crisis.

In circumstances such as the current situation, it is our responsibility as a people to provide the leadership, as we did in the 1960's, when the strength of the "Moratorium" movement provided the legitimacy to Labor's opposition to conscription and the Vietnam Way, and in the 1940's, when popular opposition to the use of Australian troops in the Middle East while Japan was threatening the Pacific allowed Curtin to oppose the then government's slavish obeisance to British interests.Gregory,

"Please don't say asking the question on categories makes me a denier."

Asking questions on categories does not make you a denier. But pretending that there is a third "category" (that climate change is neither natural nor artificial) is pretty stupid unless you are prepared to nominate a mechanism that is neither anthropogenic or natural, that satisfactorily explains the known facts.

There really is no need to invent an imaginary third category. If you accept that climate change is happening, there are two possible explanations for this change: either nature is driving it (ie: it is part of a natural cycle), or something else is driving it. When we look at the universe and possible causes of things that happen in the universe, there appear to be two drivers: nature and humanity.

Whn you look at the evidence, it is clear that there are natural fluctuations and variations in climate over aeons. When you look at what has happened in the past three hundred years, we see a pattern that cannot be adequately explained by natural fluctuations. In fact, what we see is variability that is opposite to the variability that one would expect from the history of natural fluctuations. In other words, we would currently be heading out of an interglacial period and looking forward to a protracted period of below-average temperatures, expanding ice sheets and musk oxen wandering the streets of Washington and New York. Instead, our ice caps and paddlepops are melting.

As I said, there are two things that we know of, that are capable of influencing the behaviour of things in the universe. One of them is nature, and the other is us. Nature tends to do stuff gradually. Natural climate change follows cycles measured in millions of years, not centuries. The change we are currently experiencing does not match this pattern. But it does match the profile of other anthropogenic changes, and the time scale coincides with changes in human behaviour (the industrialisation of our economy) that have led to a rapid increase in CO2 and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere.

We may one day find some deity or other omnipotent being or entity whose intervention can explain the rapid change in climatic behaviour that we are experiencing. But it is probably not very likely. Until someone discovers this wonderous being, we will just have to assume that we casued the problem and that only we have the power to solve it.sidlaw,

"If we had another Krakatoa like volcanic eruption and just say global temperatures fell by two degrees. I don't think it could be argued that this is due to human activity"

But I do think that you could say with a great deal of confidence that what you have said has no bearing whatsoever on what we are talking about here, which are LONG-TERM trends in CLIMATE (not weather).

Krakatoa's explosion caused a TEMPORARY and TRANSIENT variation in WEATHER around the world. It had no effect on the climate.

You could have chosen a better example like, for example the eruption of the Deccan Traps. Krakatoa's eruption was a pretty normal event that caused a minor fluctuation in global weather patterns over a couple of years. Such eruptions happen every few thousand years and are nothing remarkable from a geoplogical point of view. The Deccan Traps eruption lasted for millenia and had a profound effect on the earth's climate. It takes something pretty major to change the climate. A single stratovolcano blowing its top is not going to have that sort of impact.

The Deccan Traps eruption was the result of the Indian subcontinent passing over a large mantle plume in what is now the Indian Ocean while on its northward drift from Africa to Asia. As you know, continents move very very slowly. The effects of the eruption on the climate would also have occurred very slowly. Although the Deccan Traps eruption resulted in one of the earth's major mass extinction events, the relatively gradual nature of the change allowed a number of primitive life forms to adapt and ride out the event. We are descended from these life forms.

The changes being experienced at the moment are happening far more quickly that we can expect from naturally-driven change. In magnitude and persistence, these changes are closer to the Deccan Traps eruption than to the explosion of Krakatoa. In terms of rapidity, they are much closer to the Krakatoa event.

In short, we have an event of the magnitude of the Deccan Traps mass extinction event, occuring in the timescale of a Krakatoa eruption. See the problem?AE,

"The Chinese and Inidan presidents skipped it too."

They should have been there too. But they were not in New York, and Abbott was. Abbott could have attended the conference at NO COST to taxpayers because he was already in New York. But, as usual, his official reason for visiting New York (speaking to the crickets in an empty General Assembly of the UN) was just a cover for his real reasons for visiting Mew York.

Abbott has to go to New York every few weeks to "do lunch" with Sugar-Daddy Rupert. That's why he was in New York, and that's why he didn't have time to turn up to one of the most important meetings that will be held this year. Abbott needs to get fresh riding instructions from Uncle Rupert every few weeks. He is not as self-reliant as Howard, who could go for two months between pilgrimages.virgil,

"How have these people been hoodwinked so effectively!?"

LNP voters don't need to be hoodwinked. If they were not already so addled by self-doubt and resentment of their fellow human beings, they would vote sensibly.keith,

"folks like my self that can't afford to have them installed we get murdered by the hi power prices that subsidize the handouts to people that can afford them"

Yes, what we need is a government programme that installs solar panels on ALL suitable roofs and is not dependent on the financial resources of individual householders. We could save billions in transmission costs simply by localising power generation as much as possible. The more solar panels on roofs, the fewer large power stations we need, and the lower the need for expensive transmission of electricity across hundreds of kilometres.
