Not to mention that SAMs of the kind capable of taking down a plane at 33,000ft have a radar system which 'pings' its target and identifies the type of aircraft. 

There is no way that the people who fired the missile did not know it was a commercial airliner before they fired. A Boeing 777 is not similar to a soviet troop carrier in its radar profile, and even if the SAM radar system was not capable of identifying the type of plane, it was flying at commercial cruising altitude of 33,000ft..."I agree - what we need to do is legalise paid surrrogacy in Australia."

Or perhaps we need to encourage people to come to grips with their own physical inability to have their own child and rather than exploiting the plight of women living in third world countries to carry a child on their behalf, instead adopt a child from the many millions of children that are in need of adoption!

Does anyone from the first world countries that pursue commercial surrogacy arrangements in Thailand, India etc consider the economic and social implications for the surrogate? 
A good price model to follow is erosnow.com, which is a Bollywood online streaming product by Eros International, the largest Indian cinema distribution company. For $7 per month, regardless of geographic location, you can stream unlimited movies from their entire back catalogue with new movies released onto the streaming content approximately 6 months after the box office release.

I can't see why western film &amp; tv distribution companies can't come up with a comparable product?When you consider the price for real estate is now at ridiculous levels with blocks in 'first home buyer' suburbs, like Byford in WA (about 40 minute drive from Perth CBD), where the block size is 200- 250 sqm and a house and land package is about $330,000. That's a price of $1,320 per sqm of house + land, or about $920 per sqm for the land alone!

If you look back to about 2006 property prices, $900 to $1,000 per sqm was what you would be paying for land (with a free existing house on it) in inner suburbs like Mount Pleasant and Applecross, a mere 10 minutes from the CBD.

Come on people, where is the logic to justify the cost of even the first home buyer type properties?"The "logic" is simple - supply and demand"

Supply and demand theory relies on the assumption that the buyers and sellers of products are making an informed decision.
 
In the first home buyer market, that is not the case. The decision to buy a first home at such high rates per sqm of land in places that are so far from the CBD is not an informed decision. It is a decision based on the propaganda and fear mongering that prices will keep increasing at 10%+ pa and if you don't buy now, you'll never afford to get into the market.

It just does not make economic sense to pay $330,000+ to buy a small house in an area that costs you at least $15+ per day to get to work in the CBD on public transport, even more if travelling by car, plus over an hour of travel time each way. Particularly when you can purchase new 2x1 apartments in the CBD for $430k+ with no travel costs etc and much more free time. The living space is about the same in each option!

My sister in law lives in the outer suburbs in a first home buyer style house and my apartment in the city has larger rooms, larger bathrooms and much better amenities close by.I have to agree with Ian, I've long since held the view that the rate of real estate price growth in Australia is unsustainable and if not for the mining boom, fuelled by Chinese demand, Australia would have experienced a rapid real estate market 'correction' as was the case in the UK and US.

Now that the mining construction boom is off the boil and the mining companies are in production mode, not expansion mode, the level of investment in projects that required more skilled labour than we had available in Australia (hence the extremely high wages for relatively basic jobs such as TAs and kitchen hands and cleaners in the mining camps) has fallen steeply, demand for labour is returning to pre-boom levels, wage inflation is halting, many professional services firms have initiated wage freezes for up to 2 years for all staff and unemployment is on the rise back to pre-boom levels.

The problem now faced by the Reserve Bank is that to slow down the debt fuelled growth in property prices, it must raise interest rates. However, to do so may also impact on business financing and investment which could see a further reduction in job vacancies as new jobs may be created at a slower pace.

It may be hard for many property owners to hear, but the Australian property market, particularly in the capital cities, is overvalued compared to other developed countries around the world when we look at the population and available land area.After falling by more than 30% in the period 2007 to 2009."And there are some people who refuse to acknowledge that the number of jobseekers exceeds the number of available jobs." 

so the answer is to not try to change the system to better equip people to find work?

Should we just increase the amount of Newstart Allowance and not bother with providing increased funding for training, or work-for-the-dole schemes where people can potentially get some work experience (provided the work for the dole scheme is properly targeted and experience can be gained in actual work skills and not some mere token type work)?Before you go off half cocked slamming Forrest, first do some reading on the initiatives FMG has implemented off its own back to provide training and employment for indigenous people and to provide opportunities for people living in remote communities.

He was commissioned to prepare a report because he has the contacts within the remote indigenous communities to obtain their genuine views on how previous government initiatives have impacted on those communities.I assume by divorce, you mean the distribution of the financial assets of the marriage between the former spouses? The divorce is the easy bit.

But that said, it would work the same way that it already works where two married people separate and one is already re-partnered and living in a defacto relationship by the time that the financial settlement is taking place. In those circumstances the assets of the new defacto partner are notionally included in the 'pool of assets' and the future needs of all parties are considered when determining who gets what share...How so?

property law allows multiple people to be registered as the proprietors of land as either tenants in common in specified shares or as joint tenants.

As for taxation laws, well, just pick one to record as the 'spouse' to give you the best outcome for the various income tested levies etc and then the rest of the wives/husbands can just lodge returns as single people or as being in a defacto couple with each other."If we redefine marriage, we have to squeeze a square peg into a round hole, meaning we have children without a mother or a father."

It already happens Michael.

I was in a workplace where there 3 women each in separate same sex relationships and all pregnant. 

About time you caught up with the real world... same sex couples already have  the same rights as heterosexual couples, apart from the right to register their relationship with the State government office of Births, Deaths and Marriages. Aside from that, everything else is already there... Oh, apart from having a big ceremony in a nice Cathedral, but I'm sure if you ask the Anglicans they'll be happy to accept the payment (sorry donation) and hold the ceremony in one of their Cathedrals seeing as they already do that for heterosexual couples that aren't Anglican or Christian or any faith...Well... once those 5 people get jobs, they then have an increased disposable income and can afford to buy more things and add to the demand for goods and services in the community generally which demand requires the creation of more jobs..."there's a simple solution - raise taxes and spend the revenue on employing people."

so the solution is to raise taxes and for the government to directly employ more people... but to do what??

the government only needs to employ people to implement and manage government policies... so are you proposing the government introduce a new policy to employ people for the sake of employing them, which then requires a new government department to be established to manage and supervise the employment of the currently unemployed people whereby those newly employed people will perform the government function of [insert fictional job here]! 

Then there would be the issue of performance management of all these new public servants who are not employed to do anything in particular. How will their performance be judged so that they may progress through the pay increments? what productivity measures could such people implement to justify the government giving them an annual pay rise under their enterprise bargaining agreement??you can renew your patents at the end of the 20 years...

In any event, patents are to protect design ideas and generally have a shorter economic life, whereas copyright protects the artistic talents of the creator from unauthorised reproduction which may occur over a much longer period of time if it is very popular like the Beatles for example...

I think your points in relation to geoblocking etc are very valid and if artists and film makers want to sell their content on the global market using online streaming to achieve high volume sales with minimal ongoing costs, then a uniform cost should be applied for like content regardless of the location of the user."Believe that &amp; you will believe anything, even the premise that copying a digital file is stealing the product &amp; depriving the owner of the said product forever more. That's what stealing is after all, depriving the owner of said item so that they can't use it anymore."

Stealing may be taking something from another person with the intention of permanently depriving them of that thing, however, your example is focused on the wrong 'thing' as you have focused on the 'digital file' being the thing stolen, when in fact the thing stolen is the 'revenue forgone from you not buying the digital file'.

Are you suggesting that if you developed a method for producing say, a chair, in such a way that you could reproduce that chair at very low to negligible cost and you proposed to sell each chair at a reasonable price, then if someone else copied your production method and then started to mass distribute the same chairs for free, hence destroying your income stream, you would be ok with that and not consider that anything was stolen from you?"Surely stealing from someone who has very little is a bigger crime than stealing from someone who has much."

If you steal a $100 bike from a guy that owns 1,000,000 $100 bikes and you steal a $100 bike from a guy that owns 1 $100 bike, the crime is equal, as you have stolen a $100 bike!

Take the example of the penalty for stealing an iPhone from a shop v stealing an iPhone from a person's handbag. In each case, the penalty is about a $500 fine. Clearly the shop has more resources, but that does not reduce the severity of the crime...

What you're confused with is that the moral blameworthiness in relation to stealing from a rich person can be considered less than the moral blameworthiness in relation to stealing from a poor person.  That is an ethical argument and not a legal one...Perhaps Game of Thrones commands such a high price because everyone keeps cr@#*ing on about it and it gets very high ratings. So Foxtel and other content distributors have to pay a premium price to the makers of Game of Thrones for the rights to display or distribute the content to their customers.

The benefit to Foxtel et al is that they can command a premium price for their content packages which include Game of Thrones, because the general consensus seems to be that it is a very popular show and therefore people are more likely to pay a premium for it.

Maybe, start telling all the Game of Thrones fans to stop talking about it all over the internet, stop streaming the show for a few months, let the ratings fall and see if that affects the price sought to be charged by the content makers...

you know, in a similar way that movies featuring the most popular actors command a higher price to be paid by the content distributors than movies with B or C grade nobodies...exactly.

People seem to feel justified in downloading copyright protected content from unauthorised sources merely because they don't want to pay that much for the content...

Next they'll be saying it's ok to steal a Ferrari from the Ferrari dealership because Ferrari are extorting people in that they dare to charge such a high price for their cars!"The flaw in that analogy: if the sole petrol station is overcharging ridiculously, anyone is free to setup in competition. This is not the case with monopoly media deals."

But you're wrong. Anyone is free to setup in competition by creating other media content and selling it at lower prices in competition to the already popular media content.  You've gotten all turned around with the fact that the media content makers choose a particular distribution channel and you're focusing on the one product. The competition comes from other media content, not from other distribution channels peddling the same product. Why would the content maker want to drive their prices down by having people competing on price to distribute content? that just doesn't make sense.

"People are inherently against corporations owning OUR culture."

Corporations don't own your culture, or our culture at all. The corporations merely own the rights to distribute an entertainment product that you are free to choose to avail yourself of or not.  

I'm not sure about you, but my culture is not defined by what is a popular tv show this week."And is monopolising the supply of something and then charging ridiculously large amounts of money for that thing theft?"

Of course it is not theft.

If you consider you are paying too much for something, then protest with your wallet and don't buy and encourage others not to buy it as well and then when market forces respond to the lack of demand at the current prices, they will lower the prices to win customers back.

If you think the cost is too high, then don't use the product.
There are cost effective options, such as 'free to air tv' and ... wait for it ... 'radio'.

there are also online streaming products where you can get unlimited movies for $7 per month. Is that too expensive for you too?? if so, how on earth do you afford to have a tv or computer??"And its unfair to charge $75 per month for someone to watch television content. By lowering the price to something fair and just people will be more likely to watch the content via legal means."

You have conveniently forgotten that there is a free alternative to Foxtel. It's called free to air tv. So you don't have to pay anything to watch tv content.

What you will have to pay for, and rightly so, is the privilege to have a much wider selection of content available to you on demand and without advertising. You see paid content providers earn revenue from subscriptions, whilst free to air tv earns revenue from paid advertising.

Those are your options and you are free to choose between them, but to complain about the cost of paid subscription services as a justification for downloading unauthorised content is weak argument, given there are other alternatives for you to be entertained for free.

What you are required to pay for is to have a greater choice of what to watch and when you can watch it."Society also has right to content"

Please point me in the right direction to where I can find reference to said 'right to content'?

Is it in our Constitution? no it can't be, we don't have a bill of rights...

Perhaps in the US Constitution?? no, not there either....

I know, is it in the UN Charter on Human Rights? no, sadly not there either...

It would appear we have the 'right to content' as we have to 'car ownership' then!Copyright protection is not a 'right' though. I never said it was. 

The comment I referred to was that "society has a right to content", but it clearly doesn't have a right to content, neither is there any law that requires anyone to produce content for our enjoyment. Rather, there are laws that appropriately protect the proprietary interest of copyright owners.

I don't need to deal with why copyright and patents expire. The fact is, by registering the copyright and/or patent you are entitled to certain protections. The mere fact that such protections lapse after a period of time does not justify circumventing such protections in their entirety by simply availing ones self of another's property without paying for it.All well and good, but you still have not pointed to any 'rights'. A right is a defined concept and what you've described is not a right.

In any event, the mere fact that 'when the exclusive right expires it is supposed to go into the public domain for all of society to use and build upon' does not excuse the unauthorised use and exploitation of copyright protected material during the period in which the protection is intended to apply.

"to be capable of being stolen something must be able to be physically removed"

That is not correct.

you can steal revenue from the commonwealth by omitting to lodge a return of income and omitting to pay the tax liability. The revenue was never 'physically removed' from the government as they never had in the first place, but you have still permanently deprived the government of the revenue that they were always entitled to received as a matter of law.

You might need to read some criminal law books to learn about what is 'capable of being stolen'...I'm sorry rattan I shouldn't have tried to give you an example... 

How about this then. All property is capable of being stolen. Property is legally defined to include tangible and intangible property and hence copyright, being an intellectual proprietary interest is capable of being stolen.  The intangible proprietary interest that copyright represents is the right to royalties from exploiting the intellectual property.

So, by downloading a digital file comprising someone's intellectual property (i.e. intangible property) you can permanently deprive the copyright owner of the royalty that they were otherwise entitled to receive from exploiting their intellectual property.

Is that a better explanation?I agree with you that multinational companies charging different prices for like products merely because of geographical location is not fair and potentially may be unlawful (I haven't look into it though).

However, that alone does not justify another unlawful act.

Our society has long since understood the principle that two wrongs don't make a right."we have the ACCC and various anti-monopoly and marketing laws and other countries have similar institutions precisely because companies are NOT entitled to market their product in any way they want for any price they want."

Except that anyone is entitled to market and distribute their product in any way they like. What they are not allowed to do is engage in anti-competitive conduct by colluding with competitors to fix the price of like products in the market.

The thing is, each owner of content is chooses which distribution network it will use and the competition is between like media content. So the Content owners cannot collude to artificially fix the price of all content and hence extinguish competition. Similarly the content distributors cannot collude with each other to fix the price at which they purchase content from content owners.

Once things get into the distribution networks, the content owners no longer control the price, that is determined by how much the distributors can charge for content packages. 

So there's not really anything there for the ACCC to worry about. Unless of course Foxtel and say FetchTV started offering the same packages with the same content for the same price, then there would be an issue, unless of course in doing that the prices went down for consumers.Except there's still no 'right' to be entertained.
The so called 'right' to pursue happiness does not necessarily require others to entertain you.There are already other competitors moving into the content subscription space in Australia such as FetchTV.

The problem with Australia is our small population to sustain multiple content providers. It is preferable to extinguish geoblocking so that Australian consumers can access overseas content subscription services instead."Good mini series as well, I recommend watching it."

Available at your local ABC Shop for a reasonable price too...

or should we all just download for nothing and hope the BBC makes another show from the proceeds...

Oh yes, the BBC, that great big evil commercial business... oh wait it's the UK government run tv station..."Emphasis on property - ideas have never been considered that in common law."

There is literally over a hundred years worth of case law that says otherwise!"Get a grip, negative gearing is no different to any other business expense (which is everything) being claimed as a deduction."

Except that owning a rental property is not a business. Rather it is a passive investment in an income producing asset.

If owning a rental property was a business, then the non-commercial loss provisions would potentially come into play to deny the ability to offset rental losses against other income sources in the same way that losses from one business activity cannot be offset against other income sources in particular circumstances.Ann:

Each of those groups of people you have referred to would be recipients of the Disability Support Pension and not Newstart Allowance and therefore not subject to the job seeking conditions that apply for Newstart Allowance.So the solution would be for the fruit grower to relocate his farm/orchard to the CBD to make it easier for everyone else then??

"Yep sure i will start a business with no money and no assets and risk the rest of my life as a bankrupt. Good advice fool"

Well if you have no assets then what are you actually risking??

If the business fails and you go bankrupt, then that'll only last for 3 years and you'll be back to where you started..

On the other hand, if the business succeeds you will be immensely better off than your current position!

So the options are (1) do nothing and stay as you are, (2) take a punt and possibly end up in the same position you are now, or (3) take a punt and possibly end up bettering your situation."Is it reasonable to spend tons of tax-payer's hard-earneds on a program that's been demonstrated to not generate any useful outcomes elsewhere?"

Does the research show whether the failure to achieve results elsewhere is the fault of the program? or the fault of the targeted participants in the program?

You see, a program will only succeed if the people participating in it want it to succeed."I am an out of work software engineer."

I'm not trying to be rude/mean by this comment, so please take it for what it is...

Have you considered developing your own games to sell on the App Store etc?

I only suggest that as I know of another programmer who's currently unemployed and has been using his time to develop new games for 2 purposes: (1) for potential sale and ongoing revenue stream from in app purchases, and (2) to keep his hand in with programming trends and have a body of work to show potential employers...Not sure about the driving 1000's of kms to get to a fruit picking job, but there are actually orchards on the fringes of the Perth metropolitan area, coincidentally where the cheapest suburbs are to buy a house these days...

There's also plenty of orchards that are about 20 to 30 minutes drive from major regional centres such as Bunbury/Busselton and Geraldton. 

All of which are in easy access of unemployed people living in those areas...

When I was in high school we would jump into 1 car and go fruit picking because we wanted to earn money as the pay on offer was more than we were getting without doing the work!The same way that other people I know living on the dole do it... by sharing a house with other people and splitting the costs of food, rent, power etc etc. All of a sudden the rent of say $400pw for a 4 bed house becomes $100 each pw when shared between 4 people.

I've always shared rental properties with others, even though I worked and could afford it on my own. It just makes better sense to share the cost if you can...solar hot water system installed at the rental property!If you think that's tough, try applying for new jobs when you have to go to work every day as well! Geez I don't how people manage these days with all these tough requirements to wake up, turn the computer, log in to seek.com and click apply online 10 times per week...It is open to a single mother in her twenties if she has an income stream and she buys shares with regular dividends. Negative gearing doesn't only apply to real estate.

1. negative gearing applies for anyone and everyone, it can apply for acquiring real estate and also to any other income producing assets. So why not borrow $10,000 and buy some bank shares that will pay you a fully franked dividend and start securing your financial future too.

2. Apple, Google etc pay little tax in Australia because, like the way they do business in all higher tax jurisdictions, they engage in complex transfer pricing arrangements whereby the Australian Apple entity pays a royalty payment to an Irish registered IP company for the right to sell the technology contained in an iPhone, and the advertising products sold on Google.com.au are contracts deemed to be executed in Singapore where the company tax is 15% not 30%.  There is already new legislation in the works to try to remedy these situations and the OECD is also working on a global framework to combat this behaviour, which Australia is participating in.

3. If 82% of mining profits in fact go offshore, well the tax is paid at the company level in Australia and when the dividend is paid to overseas shareholders, the franking credit that an Australian shareholder could use to offset their other tax payable, is instead retained by the government as payment of withholding tax. So there is no loss to the revenue.

Boo-hoo"All of us who don't receive favourable tax concessions from the government see no difference between the handouts the 'dole bludgers' get and the tax concessions the rich people get."

'rich people' get the same tax 'concessions' as 'not rich' people. It is merely the case that 'rich' people have more capital from which they derive greater levels of income and hence the (perceived) 'concessions' appear to be greater.

The fact is hundreds of thousands of wage earners claim tax deductions for rather dubious work related expenses, and they seem to think that's fine, but anyone that has a greater income that uses the tax laws in the way they are intended is somehow underhanded?"Negative gearing was originally introduce to encourage investors into the rental market"

Wrong. negative gearing has been around since the concepts of 'assessable income' and 'allowable deductions'. perhaps go back to the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 and earlier income tax legislation..."But the people who invest in homes are never going to want to rent to the people government has to support - drug addicts, hooligans, house trashers. Gov has to find them a roof, private landlords do not."

There is a good reason why private landlords don't want to rent their properties to such people, just look at the destruction that occurs in public housing and you'll see the respect that is shown to other peoples' property!

I understand the utilitarian premise that we should all be looking out for each other, but why is it that the people who make good life choices are forever picked on by those who did not, and then expected to perpetually bail them out?

Why is it that you think 'drug addicts, hooligans, house trashers' have a right to live in someone else's privately owned property?"Negative gearing losses can only be written off against investment tax bill, not other sources of income such as wages"

Wrong.

If that were the case, negative gearing would be an unpopular strategy for salary/wage earners in the higher income brackets... But that is where many, many mum and dud type property investors are from.

Revenue losses, such as interest expenses incurred in gaining assessable income (i.e. rent) are deductible against the assessable income of the taxpayer."yes there are different/specific laws for companies as opposed to individuals" 

No there isn't. the basic rules of whether receipts are assessable income and expenses are allowable deductions are the same for everyone, whether natural people, companies or trusts.

What you're perceiving as different laws is the in fact the difference between whether an 'expense is incurred gaining or producing assessable income' for a wage/salary earner and a person, company or trust that runs a business. Generally, there is greater scope to characterise expenses incurred in running a business as allowable deductions, than there is in relation to earning a wage/salary. For the most part, that is due to a business leasing premises, buying plant &amp; equipment which is depreciated overtime, buying consumables, employing staff etc etc. A wage/salary earner is merely required to turn up to work, put a bum on a seat and do their thing for 8 hours and go home..."Why should losses be tax deductible. If you wish to take a punt on a secong or thrid house or shares you should take the responsibility for the losses."

Because just like the taxpayer, the government should also take the good with the bad!

If a taxpayer is making losses for a period of time, those losses ought to be carried forward to be offset against future income derived by the business/asset until all losses are gone and then tax paid on any assessable income from that point onwards.

What you're proposing is in effect, that a new business starting up that (as is usually the case) makes revenue losses for the first 1 to  2 years of say $100,000 and then makes a profit of $30,000 in year 3 should not have the benefit of the previous years revenue losses for tax purposes, even though such revenue losses are properly taken into account for accounting purposes..."do not try to compare the too"

'two'

Anyway, how is it different?
in each case you are acquiring or creating an income producing asset with the intention that in time it will earn you more income than it costs to run...

If you think anyone with a negatively geared property wants to make a loss perpetually, you are sorely mistaken!Diamonds are expensive because of very clever and targeted marketing to make them more desirable! There are in fact many more diamonds produced annually than are consumed!

Designer dresses are expensive because they use superior fabrics, superior construction and superior design and then they are priced at a high level deliberately to make them an 'aspirational' product that is desired by many but attainable by few."The people renting have met some of your interest, rates, land taxes etc and the taxpayer has subsidised the rest"

Are you suggesting that AE should rent his investment property for free?? of course the tenants are paying for some of the costs of ownership, but so is AE. Even though he was entitled to deductions for interest and depreciation for the investment property, that only reduces his/her assessable income and he/she is therefore nevertheless required to shell out the rest of the costs. Then, when the rental income starts to exceed the expenses of owning the property, AE pays income tax on the rent (on top of any other income earned), so it balances out after a few years.

Actually Ann, AE is correct.

But the fact that AE is correct does not correspond with your personal opinion as to what is a 'necessity' and what is a 'luxury'.

For example, you seem to consider 'personal home ownership' a necessity, whereas it is in fact a luxury when compared to the necessity of having a roof over ones head which can be achieved at much more affordable levels than by personal home ownership.Ann, I think you've missed the point, namely that people such as AE started out in life with the same education opportunities as everyone else in this lucky country. It is simply that people such as AE have applied greater effort to achieve their chosen goal whilst others have applied greater effort to achieve greater enjoyment in their early years.

The product of those choices in life result in those that apply themselves to achieve their goals, generally get a good job and generally get ahead in life. On the other hand, those that focussed on chasing boys/girls in high school and then drinking + chasing boys/girls after high school have been left behind without relevant skills or education to get a good job and get ahead in life.

So no. Nobody handed AE a job, rather he earned the job through hard work. I too have never been unemployed since I was 15, but no-one has ever handed me a job either, I've always competed for jobs on merit and because of my attitude in life I have a good CV that makes potential employers think I'm a good prospect."*someone* has been shafted that 2 billion and let's see... some kind of investors... maybe by an investment firm doing superannuation for mums and dads... oh look, they got shafted out of their super."

How so Ann??

If the share market makes a big move upwards and Gina Rinehart's paper wealth increases by $2bn how can you suggest that 'someone has been shafted'? Surely if the mum &amp; dads superannuation is invested in shares and the share market has gone up (as in AE's example) then it logically follows that the mum &amp; dads super has also increased!

The share market does not work like a seesaw where one share goes up so the rest must go down...The 50% CGT 'discount' not 'exemption' exists because in 1985 the government decided to tax capital gains by making the 'net capital gain' part of assessable income by statute (i.e. it is not income according to ordinary concepts).

So the 50% CGT discount replaced the old system where income was taxed and capital gains were not taxed. Hence it increased the cost of investing by introducing a tax on the capital gains.

The ability to offset revenue losses from an income producing asset against other assessable income is only possible where the other income and the risk associated with the income producing asset both fall on the same taxpayer. So although negative gearing may be tax effective, it is a poor asset protection strategy as the owner of the asset could lose it if sued! much better to own investments in a different structure and keep them separate from the risky pursuits of the individual..."They are business costs. End of story."

Buying and owning a rental property is clearly not a 'business'. Such a pursuit does not have any of the characteristics of a 'business', unless you are doing so on a much larger scale than your average 1 or 2 properties type investor. You would also need to actively manage the properties in a regular and repetitious manner...

That being said, the interest expenses and other expenses incurred in gaining or producing the rental income are deductible, not because it is a business, but because section 8-1(1) of the ITAA97 says so, and the High Court in Anstis (2010) and in Stone (2005) said that what makes an outgoing deductible is the connection to the receipt of assessable income, to confine the inquiry to whether the income is derived in a business is to take too narrow an approach..."So why isn't my train ticket to and from work tax deductible then?"

For the same reason that parking a company car at your house overnight incurs an FBT liability. Because it isn't necessary for you to do that to perform your job.

Merely getting yourself to and from your place of employment is not in itself an expense necessarily incurred in gaining assessable income. 

But feel free to claim the deductions and take on the ATO and see how far it gets you. If you would like representation up to the High court let me know :)OGLE:

Simply purchasing an asset before 19 September 1985 does not necessarily mean that CGT will always not apply either... have a look at Div149 of the ITAA97 or CGT event K6 as examples...

In any event, the indexation system was originally introduced and was overly complex to administer and so replaced with a simple 50% discount with certain conditions. Similarly the main residence exemption was introduced to prevent CGT from applying to your home. All of these things were introduced to manage the introduction of CGT to make previously tax free capital gains part of your assessable income.

If you think the 50% discount is a massive gimme, have a look at the small business CGT concessions! They're fantastic!I'm sure they sleep just fine knowing that they're going to have long term tenants :)

It is not your right to own your own home, it is a privilege and a desired outcome for you, but it is not something you are entitled to simply by being born.

It will happen for you one day as you appear to be quite determined to buy a house and I'm sure you'll be saving up to do so.

As for rent being wasted money, well, it is keeping a roof over your head so its not entirely wasted now is it?"allow a partial tax deduction claim on mortgage interest exclusively for your primary place of residence "

your primary residence doesn't earn income for you, so on what basis can mortgage interest be deductible??

Or would you also suggest that CGT apply to primary residence, just to even things up when it gets sold??You might want to adjust the terms of your scenario there Tim P. in the scenario you've described, you've not made a capital gain as your cost base is $1,200 and you sold it for $1,200 as the $200 renovation costs are capital expenses...

Unless of course you purchased the property to renovate and re-sell at a profit, in which case you've still not made a profit!I agree, the author has got it back to front!

There is no 'policy of negative gearing', it is allowed as a matter of law.

What the author perhaps means is that there 'should be a policy to prevent negative gearing'.

In any event, the debate is centred on the jealousy of the 'have nots' and the 'to timid to take a risk' crowds...Except that all of those things that you consider to be necessary for you to gain assessable income are not. They are necessary for you to sustain your way of life, not for you to 'do your job'. That's the difference. You have to look at what is actually required for a person to perform the job that you do?

for example, I am required by law to do a certain number of hours of professional development and therefore I can claim as deductions the cost of attending courses that are a requirement of my job. I am required to wear a suit everyday and when appearing in court, however, it is not a uniform and cannot claim a deduction for purchasing my suits. See the difference??

You say it's necessary for you to travel to your workplace, well I'm afraid it's not. You have chosen not to live close enough to your workplace that you have to travel. Ergo the travelling expense is not necessarily incurred...

there is a difference between what is actually 'necessary' and what is 'necessary because of a choice you have made'.

I have friends that earn modest incomes, purchased a first home at age 20 and their first investment property at age 24. They did this through hard work and taking the risk that they could have a tenant more often than their investment property was vacant and that they would continue to be employed. Some are comfortable to take such risks and others are not. But simply because you're not, does not mean that the others are necessarily bad."Maybe there's a reason why??? Strangely I think you can still rent houses in most of the world!"

In many countries they have rent control legislation, so the price of rent is artificially managed by the government and hence real market forces aren't necessarily at play..."Why is that an elected MP is not considered part of the government when they where elected to lead the government?? "

'were elected' not 'where elected'. Also being elected as an MP does not result in one being in 'government' as the 'government' is the party that carries the majority of the votes in the lower house. Being elected as a member of parliament means you merely get to participate in the parliamentary debates and represent your constituents.

"Under the revamped electoral rules designed by the gangs for the gangs and illegal changes to the Constitution by the ALPLNP, an MP is not elected to manage the government, they are elected to be a bench warmer while the bigger wealthier gang ruins the place."

What illegal changes to the constitution?? any changes to the constitution require at least 51% of the popular vote in at least 4 of the States, so the 'gangs' of the 'ALPLNP' cannot change the constitution alone!

"Thus maintaining the gangland system of the financial mafia that has bought up every democracy in the Western World in the same way"

Anyone is entitled to run to be elected to the house of representatives or the senate. They need not be a member of any political party, however, groups of like minded people forming political parties does assist in creating a more stable system of government. The other option is to not have political parties at all and then let the governor general herd cats in parliament to get a decision made!"A rort legislated into the Tax Act is good reason for intelligent people to call for its scrapping."

So how do you propose businesses fund the daily activities of their business? such as paying wages and for supplies etc without using some degree of debt funding to ensure sufficient cash is available as and when required.

Anyone that has run a business will tell you that you can't rely on your clients to pay you on time, every time. So there is a need to have overdraft and drawdown facilities to ensure staff get paid and the business can continue uninterrupted. Such facilities charge interest and that interest is properly deductible.

Specifically in relation to property investment, perhaps if the legislation did not permit the revenue losses to be offset against other income, but rather the interest be deductible against the rental income and any excess be carried forward as a loss that can be offset against future rental income when the property becomes positively geared (i.e. deferring a portion of the deductions to future income years)."Foreign real estate investors may be driving up asset prices but they can't benefit from negative gearing if they pay their taxes abroad."

And add to that, under all of the double tax treaties that Australia has, all profits realised on the sale of real property are taxable solely in Australia, so there's no issue with foreigners selling up and Australia losing out on the tax payable..."You obviously missed the point about who is investing. It's predominantly the wealthy, not the average worker."

That's not an accurate statement at all.

As a result of the rapid growth in wages in the mining sector, in WA there are an ever increasing number of people who are not 'wealthy' but have a relatively high income and have been advised by financial planners to invest in property to build wealth for their retirement. By way of example, I know of a mid twenties girl who does generic admin for a mining company and earns $140k pa, with no formal qualifications or special skills, and has purchased 2 houses, 1 to live in and 1 to rent out as an investment.
"But where is the compelling reason for this to be supported by taxpayers in the same way as a qualified child care worker? If you choose to have an 18 year old part time uni student take care of your kids while both parents go to work to make more and more money, go for it. But why should I pay to support your choice?"

You already have to pay to support someone's choice to have a child, to return to work and have that child looked after in a childcare centre, which to be honest, although they have 'qualified child care workers' the entry requirements to obtain the qualification are non-existent, so why is a uni student, who has completed year 12 to a sufficiently high standard to get into uni and is pursuing further education, not also a good option to look after children.

My father's partner would employ overseas students with working visas to look after her children while she worked... her kids are now pursuing tertiary study (2 are studying to be doctors) and all of her kids can speak English, French, German and Italian fluently as a result. Let's that happen in a childcare centre?

The point is, there are reasons to support people hiring nannies (if you are going to subsidise childcare in any event) because there are insufficient places in childcare centres for parents to place their kids while they return to work. Also a nanny is solely for the 'wealthy', if you look at the cost of childcare, why can't 2 or 3 families pool their resources to hire a nanny to look after their children in their homes? Such an idea could relieve some of the demand pressures on childcare centres and maybe make them a bit more competitive on price?"Kids will have much less educational and social outcomes under your proposal than they'll get up the road in the child care centre."

What social outcomes? the kids coming up through the ranks are behaving in a progressively less socially acceptable way as time goes on. There was an article on the ABC yesterday about the current statistics for kids being suspended in WA schools for physically abusing teachers, physically abusing other students and wilfully damaging school property is at record levels!
So are kids really learning good social skills in child care centres?

As for education opportunities, I'd wager that children can learn as much if not more at home than they do in childcare centres. With an educated nanny that is not merely feeding 30+ kids with tasks to occupy them and keep the quiet (a la child care centres), you have the opportunity for targeted educational development.

Just saying, you can't assume that child care centres are automatically better than a nanny, merely because child care centres are regulated... because the regulation isn't that flash!"and why does it need to be government owned"

Because a private owner of Aust Post would cut the loss making services immediately and only retain the profitable services.

Aust Post should not be privatised as it is an essential service to the community and it would be inappropriate for several of the quasi government functions performed by Aust Post to be effectively outsourced to a private entity, such as passport applications and renewals and being an authorised witness for certain types of documents.@the yank:

"Keep pretending that there isn't anything wrong with the legal profession if you like."

Have you heard of the Legal Practice Board of (insert relevant State here)? It is an independent body that receives complaints about the legal profession, investigates the complaints and prosecutes the practitioners with such zeal that you could be mistaken for thinking that you were one of them yank.

The legal profession is in fact heavily regulated, to the extent that if a lawyer has money in their trust account for too long, they get reprimanded for it, let alone if they were to deal with those funds.

It may surprise you that there is actually a large cross section of rates charged by lawyers, some of whom are higher than others because of their particular area of specialty and others that charge at rates below the legislated scale rates. And even if you were to sign a cost agreement with a lawyer, then if once the work is done and you're not happy, you are entitled to have the fees reviewed by the court if you think you've been overcharged.  (let's see you try that move with your mechanic, plumber electrician, doctor, dentist etc).

Basically, if you don't like to use lawyers for whatever reason, then don't use them. If you don't like to use them because they cost money, then again, don't use them. However, it wildly unfair to say that lawyers are 'thieves' as you've alleged. They simply charge a fee for a service and it is the client's choice to pay the fee or seek the service elsewhere.@the Yank:
The law is not a closed shop.
You are entitled to represent yourself and draft your own contracts etc, but you also have to be prepared to live with the consequence of having someone with no relevant skills doing the legal work...

To say the law is a closed shop is like saying electricians are a closed shop simply because I'm not allowed to go and rewire my house without the relevant qualifications.

@Lord Erabus:
the fact that you only spent over $20k on legal fees for your family court matters is actually on the low side. But that is besides the point. You could have represented yourself and indeed the family court system is set up so that people can represent themselves with greater ease than other forms of litigation.
That being said, if your ex-spouse is a drug addict, as you say, then why did you not get the child protection services in your state involved in the matter and have your child separately represented by a court appointed (and funded) independent children's lawyer to look after your child's interests?"At least an electrician earns their money. Lawyers just play with words."

So lawyers don't earn their money yank?

Perhaps I should just go home and give up my job now then, seeing as I'm apparently not doing anything to 'earn' my living.

Is your problem with lawyers the cost? or their mere existence?
If it is the cost, then how does it really differ from an electrician that charges say $200 per hour to fix some wiring? It is still a necessary service that cost money.

"Lawyers just play with words. Sure you can represent yourself and good luck trying to figure out what the law really means."

As above, (not to be critical of electricians in oversimplifying what they do) doesn't an electrician just play with wires? Sure you could do it yourself, but good luck trying to figure it out without killing yourself!

"There is a reason they make it so complicated ... to keep the punters blinded by their legalise."

Well, given the strong movement in the profession for plain English drafting since about at least 2004, I guess if you still can't understand what the lawyer says to you, well then I guess that's probably more your failing in understanding either plain English, or the concepts being explained. Either way, that's your problem not the lawyer's, as you can lead a horse to water, but you can't make him drink yank...For the job that ASIC is tasked to do, it lacks resources, relevant skills and willpower to achieve it's objectives.

One problem is the public service culture (I used to be one) whereby staff performance well above expectations is not recognised and staff performance well below expectations is also not recognised because in both instances, to do so requires the HR people to write a report to justify why a person is underperforming and should not receive an increase in their pay from one increment to the next within their APS level, or to explain why the excelling staff should be rewarded by moving up by more than one pay increment. Instead they are all treated as satisfactory and get the same recognition in the salary review and hence the good one's leave because they're not valued and the s@#t floats to the top, as they say.

Then, in particular to ASIC, they lack funding which results in their professional staff, who have the relevant skills to conduct investigations and litigate matters, being left to do their own typing, photocopying and file maintenance. So rather than having people out there finding the evidence and running prosecutions, those people are standing by a photocopier for days on end making copies of bank records and transaction statements etc because they can't hire any admin staff to do that job.

Fix the funding issues and fix the cultural problems in the public service and you can have a good agency!@Rabbithole

She was not held without charge at all. She was in fact charged and there was a hearing in the Magistrates Court where it was found she was mentally unfit to enter a plea to the charges preferred against her and hence the criminal prosecution could not proceed and she was required by law to be deal with by the alternative means provided in the Criminal Law (Mentally Impaired Accused) Act (WA).

So she has been held without being convicted, but that is only because based on the expert evidence adduced in the Magistrates Court hearing she was found to not be capable of understanding and therefore participating in the criminal proceedings.

What was done was lawful, read the Act. The problem was/is that there's a lack of appropriate facilities other than prisons to house alleged offenders who are deemed unfit to enter a plea. The law requires that they be held for treatment of their mental illness and for other reasons.

And the same laws apply regardless of any race...Regardless of what the PM has said, law and order is a State issue and so is mental health. 
In this case it is the interaction between the criminal law and the mental health laws that gives rise to the anomalous situation whereby an alleged offender can be held in custody without being convicted of an offence and the reason that is so is because the law recognises that they cannot have a fair trial if they are incapable of understanding what is happening.
It is not an Aboriginal Affairs issue. It is a mental health issue. even if Rosie was not Aboriginal the same thing would have occurred because the WA State Government has inadequate facilities to deal with mentally impaired accused outside of the prison system.
The PM cannot do anything about even if he tried!That's some pretty wild claims there Rabbithole... Apart from the fact that the ALP and LNP have over the last 30 years been in government at one time or another and that (if we accept your assertion) cancer rates have increased 300% over the same period, where is the causal nexus to link the two?

Could it not be the case that other factors have led to the increase in cancers such as:
1. better medical technology capable of detecting more types of cancers.
2. changes to diet and lifestyle.
3. the delayed effects of smoking and asbestos coming home to roost.
etc etc
To claim that the governments are deliberately contaminating the food, water, air and knowingly causing death in the community is by far one of the wildest conspiracy theories I've heard to date."she is protected by the Constitution and International Law"

and can you name the head of power in the constitution that has allegedly been breached by the enactment of the Criminal Law (Mentally Impaired Accused) Act?

Or perhaps name the international convention that Australia has signed and has been ratified by the Cabinet which would apply in this situation to protect Rosie?

If you cannot come up with an answer to either of the above, then I'm afraid your arguments are sunk.It was a magistrate that made the decision after hearing expert evidence of Rosie's mental impairment. It was not the Liberal Party, the Labor Party, the Nationals or the Greens that made the decision.

The relevant legislation has been around since 1996 and is designed to provide a means to deal with alleged offenders that cannot comprehend what is happening in the criminal justice system and hence cannot have a fair trial. Therefore, the legislation provides for an alternate treatment which does not result in the person being convicted of an offence.They can make laws in relation to Aborigines under the Constitution, but the issue is not an Aboriginal issue it is an issue in relation to the treatment and care of people with mental illness..."Our richest person did not become a billionaire through hard work, or innovation, but by having the luck to inherit a fortune"

And you will hold that against her for the rest of your life won't you?

But let's not forget, our richest person inherited her wealth from her late father who employed his entrepreneurial spirit and took large risks to find and develop the mining resources that today employ thousands of people on very good wages.

Unfortunately not everyone can be rich. If we all earned the same and had the same wealth, there would be no measure of rich or otherwise.

Alternatively, we could penalise people for achieving great things and discourage investment in skills, education and businesses because why try to achieve more for yourself and your family if the rest of the world will just try to cut you down for it at every opportunity...MT_Syd
"if wealth comes from adding value, how do you explain the wealth of Gina Rinehart?"

You explain the wealth of Gina by her late father adding value to the mineral resources that he and his business partner discovered and developed through years of hard work and risk.

Similarly, Gina herself has been at the helm of new mining projects and expansions which add value to the existing resources.

Just because someone has been fortunate to inherit money/wealth does not mean that the wealth was not accumulated by adding value by their ancestors.

Or do you also wish to advocate for a clean slate policy whereby upon death everything you own goes to the government for redistribution to the masses and your descendants start from scratch?So what you appear to be advocating for then is a progressive death tax whereby inheritance would be tax free up to a set level, then is progressively taxed the greater the size of the estate?

Or perhaps removing the CGT rollover from a deceased to the beneficiaries of their estates, such that the estate is deemed to incur a CGT liability upon the transfer of assets from the deceased's estate to the beneficiaries?

Either way, those options would simply promote the more widespread use of trusts to accumulate wealth and hence avoid the death taxes (which is why trusts were invented a few hundred years ago). But then we all know how unfair it is that some people use trusts and others choose not to or just don't use them because they have no real use for one...without the "pipe dreams of those who scrape off others" the workers would not have a job.

Not all business owners run for the hills and hide behind bankruptcy, there are some, that I know from experience, who will sell personal assets to satisfy the businesses debts and ensure employees get their entitlements.

Also, the tax legislation imposes personal liability on the directors of companies for certain tax liabilities of the company, such as the PAYG liability for employee wages and SGC. So if the company goes under, the directors are personally liable.

Oh, and offshore tax havens are really on the outer these days as there's information sharing agreements between most governments and the tax havens these days and Austrac is very efficient at identifying money going to or coming from a tax haven country, so it's relatively easy for the ATO to track down now.A company is not a magical beast that just sucks money from everything around it. A company is a business structure that is controlled by actual people and in fact most companies in Australia are private companies that run small to medium businesses.
A company is merely a way to separate the personal assets of the shareholders from the business risk that attaches to running the business carried on by the company, such as public liability, workers comp, economic downturn, product failures etc etc.
Generally the use of companies allows business owners to attempt new ventures that they otherwise would not if it meant that they could potentially lose their own house...Sorry to say but during workchoices, real wages actually increased.
And the introduction of the GST replaced the wholesale sales tax of up to 17% on some products, and also replaced a range of State taxes, so it really didn't make everything cost more for the lower spectrum of society as you claim. 
Workchoices merely had it's name changed to the fair work act and was tinkered around the edges but not substantially changed. In any event, the fact that upon a change of government the IR legislation was also changed does not equate to a failure of Workchoices, it equates to a change in ideology.

"A dollar of disposable income is not the same as a hundred dollars of disposable income if both the person with the former spends his dollar and the person with the latter spends a dollar. The cost to the former is greater in its effect than to the latter."

That does not answer the point that the GST replaced the wholesale sales tax that already existed and was a consumption based tax, hence the introduction of the GST did not impose greater costs on the lower income spectrum as alleged in your original post.And why not?

Well I'll tell you why not, to accumulate too much surplus cash in a pty ltd company that runs a business would just needlessly expose that cash to the risk of the business being sued.

You're much better off running that business with the pty ltd company as the corporate trustee of a discretionary trust, paying the profits to a shell company each year, where the cash is protected, and then loan it back to the business as working capital as and when needed.

Then when you retire, you can still drip feed out the dividends to yourself, but in the event that the business has gone under, you'll still have something left :)Can someone tell me why it is that you consider that everyone should get paid the same no matter what they do?

Or why it is that people with money, be it lots or a little, should not be allowed to invest that money and derive further income?

And how could a society function where knowledge, skills, training and entrepreneurial efforts are not rewarded, but rather people are encouraged to strive for mediocrity?You still have not said why it is not fair?

Is it the fault of the person that inherited wealth that they now derive passive income as well as income from personal exertion? Should they penalised for their fortunate position of being born into a family with money?

Every $ that a wealthy person earns from income of any sources is subject to the taxation laws. So by earning more they are subject to greater levels of taxation and hence the wealth is redistributed through government funded infrastructure, healthcare, welfare etc etc.

By applying one's capital to produce income, you are investing in new ideas that create new jobs, without which we as a society would fail to advance.

Also when someone has applied their capital to develop an idea, acquire machinery, employ staff and purchase raw materials in running a business that produces a product, that product needs to be sold for a price that (a) can sustain the business and (b) the general public are willing to pay. If the product is successful and the business sells lots of it the owner of the business reaps the reward of greater profits (i.e. not profit margin but total profits), whereas if in any year the product does not sell as well, the employees earn the same regardless and the owner of the business receives less income as their profits are less. So with the risk goes the reward.

It is a simple fact that a wage earner takes on no or very little risk and hence their reward is relatively constant. However, the business owner assumes all of the risk of a business enterprise and hence when it is successful they correctly receive the greatest reward...I have simply asked the question why is it unfair that we should accept the proposition that it is unfair for rich people to continue earning money from their investments?

But to address your point, I support all people being entitled to use their available resources to their best advantage. So if that means investing capital and deriving passive income, then more power to you. If that means deriving income from personal exertion and effort then more power to you. If that means a combination of (a) and (b) then well done.

What I support is the maintenance of a fair and progressive tax system that provides for the needs of our society (which it does). It is a simple fact that there are some people who just by earning 5%pa on their invested capital, will not be able to spend all of the income earned in a year after paying 46.5% income tax and they will continue to accumulate wealth at a greater pace than those without much surplus income. That being said, I don't consider it to be a problem because it is those people that provide capital for others to borrow to create new businesses and build their own wealth. It is also generally those people that are the biggest supporters of the arts.

My view is that not everyone is born into the same circumstances and we can't all be rich, but in Australia we have relatively high wages compared to the rest of the world and our standard of living on the whole is quite high. The problems that people generally have to complain about in Australia are first world problems, by that I mean we have clean running water, easy access to healthcare, education, housing, food, social welfare, relatively low unemployment and a stable system of government whilst generally what Australian's consider to be problems are 'rents are to high for me to live in a house on my own on welfare, or on a low income', 'house prices are too high so I have to live on the outskirts of the city where I can afford to buy a house', 'petrol costs too much so I have to buy a new car with a more efficient engine', or best of all 'other people have more money than me so their life is not as hard'.Simple solution, just don't use social media for every facet of your life.

Try sending your friends a text message or even call them to arrange to meet somewhere, instead of posting something on facebook for the world to see and then complain if people you didn't intend to be there turn up...

Instead of posting a selfie on the internet to try to get some attention from people you've never met before, just go out with your friends and see them in person. At least your friends are not likely to say mean things about your appearance (to your face), but there's plenty of people on the internet that will readily pick on your appearance.

Try thinking about what the things you post on facebook and twitter would sound like, and how stupid you would look saying it, if you said the same thing in a public space to actual people. Then decide if you still want to tell the world you just made tacos or had a shower...Tory Boy:

Islam is a religion not a culture. There are many different cultures in which people practice the religion of Islam, so don't confuse the two.  There are people practicing the religion of Islam in the UK, India, USA, Australia, many parts of Europe and much of South East Asia, all of whom have their own discrete cultural practices, but they share a common belief in a deity. 

I'm not sure how you can find Islam itself offensive? Do you find it offensive because you're an atheist? If so, do you also find Christianity, Buddhism and Hinduism offensive?

There are literally hundreds of millions of Muslims in the world who live a perfectly ordinary and peaceful existence because they practice their religion and do not get drawn into the extremist BS that other people with their own agendas in mind trawl out to recruit others to do their bidding.  The same goes for Christians, where the vast majority live a peaceful existence, however, there are extremist minorities (mostly in the southern US states) that seek to use religion to justify violence and hatred towards others. The extremists in both groups are in reality the only ones that are not practicing what their respective religions are teaching them...It is also virtually impossible to stop commercial surrogacy in developing countries becoming forced labour with women abducted and held in complexes to carry other peoples' children.

We all know that people trafficking for the sex trade is prevalent all over the world, why would the people running that illegal trade not branch out into the baby making trade too?

The adoption path is a much more ethically and morally sound response to people not being able to reproduce naturally or through IVF. It is much better to take an orphaned child into a loving home (wherever that home may be) than for that child to grow up on the streets or without the opportunity to experience life in a family. 

I personally think it is morally corrupt and says much of the selfishness of western society that people would think that when they cannot reproduce themselves (i.e. carry their own child), rather than taking in an orphaned child that is already born, they must have a child that is biologically their own!  That does not tell me that such people are desperate to be parents, it tells me that such people are incredibly self indulgent that they feel they must carry on their family bloodline!

Personally if my wife and I can't conceive a child naturally, we'd accept that as being the reality and then decide whether to be childless or to adopt a child."On that basis all parents who have their own child are selfish. Let's just ban it outright in Australia and make it compulsory for any family that wants to have children that they must adopt foreign orphans, preferably from poverty-stricken areas."

Nice try to make the other position sound absurd...

The argument is not that all people that want children and have a child of their own lineage are selfish. It is that people who, not being able to conceive naturally or through IVF or carry a child to term, cannot in any event have a child using solely their own bodies then the insistence that any child that they bring into their family must be of their lineage is selfish. The reason that it is selfish is that they, being 'desperate for a child' and not being able to reproduce, insist upon another person carrying their child to term in the other person's body when there are millions of children that are already alive and in need of a family.

That is where the selfishness shines through. Not in the desire to have 'a child' but in the desire to only have 'their biological child'.I agree, rebating GST for low income earners would be an administrative burden that would only cost the revenue more.

Perhaps to encourage people out of unemployment benefits and into paid work, increasing the tax free threshold to say $30k - $40k so that low income earners would be no worse off by moving to gainful employment.

Then there would need to be an shift in the current marginal rates and corresponding income thresholds. Perhaps to remove the obvious benefit to the higher income earners of the increased tax free threshold, introduce a new maximum marginal tax rate of say 55% coming in at $500k.

With the higher tax free threshold, there would then  be clear scope to remove a lot of the middle class welfare that exists as those taxpayers (or net tax receivers) would be adequately compensated by the reduced effective income tax rate..Firstly, companies don't get the 50% CGT discount.

Secondly, the CGT discount only applies if the relevant asset is not trading stock in a business or the profit or gain is not income from an isolated profit making undertaking.  Therefore if you acquire real estate for the purpose of development and resale at a profit, then the gain is income and no CGT discounts apply. If you buy shares or currency to trade on the open market for a profit, then the gains are income.The problem with your suggestion is that people will just accumulate more of their incomes in companies and only pay 30% tax and just reinvest in the company structure until they retire and just draw down dividends over time.

People should be encouraged to work harder and earn more, and by extension pay more tax. Your suggestion does the opposite, it merely encourages people to strive for earning the most take home pay for the least amount of effort. Similar to the types of calculations many uni students do when taking on casual work while getting youth allowance, they turn down extra shifts because it will reduce their youth allowance and they would be effectively receiving the same money for more effort. that is the culture we as a society have been breeding for some time now and it's not a good way for people to look at things.Blzbob

They tried an individual marginal tax rate of 75% for income above 1 million Euros pa in France and the wealthiest people in France then went shopping for a new home country.You've obviously never come across the ATO's data matching capabilities then?

The 'black economy' is targeted by the development of what is called industry benchmarks that the ATO uses to determine whether income is being underreported based on the reported cost of goods sold. The ATO will access all the bank records for a taxpayer and work out how much money goes into their accounts v the cost of maintaining their lifestyle v the income reported.

Then they do an audit and the taxpayer cops a very large bill!"This would certainly level the playing field somewhat, by giving human citizens some of the privileges enjoyed by corporations, who only have to pay tax on their NET income while we currently pay tax on our GROSS income." 

That's not true, a corporation pays tax on it's gross operating profit, what is left after paying tax is it's net income.

As an individual taxpayer, you pay tax on your gross income. If you operate your own business as a sole trader, you pay tax on your gross operating profit just like a company, albeit at the marginal rates applicable to a natural person.Except that the only thing that the company does is operate the business and derive revenue. The company does not go home every night and cook a meal, spend time with its family and hang out with its friends on the weekend. 

The reason why your so called 'human labour power' does not result in the expenses incurred in every facet of your life being deductible is that everything you do in your life that is not going to work, is not an income producing activity.

The difference with a corporation is that all of its costs are incurred in the course of deriving revenue.

The rest of your post is really just conspiracy types lines.I can explain it to you for a nice fee..."Capital gains, when treated is a way to redefine income as something else and tax it at a lower rate"

No it isn't. The capital gains tax regime is a way of redefining capital gains as income and without the inclusion of net capital gains as statutory income, the gain realised on the disposal of a capital asset would not be taxable.

If anything, the CGT regime has captured more revenue from the 'wealthy' by imposing tax on the disposal of assets that were previously not taxable.@GJA

You're argument fails. Look at Division 83A of the ITAA 97 in relation to taxation of employee share schemes and also income does not only mean 'cash' or 'money' it also includes the market value of 'other property' that receive as reward for the provision of services or the supply of goods (i.e. I sell you 3 loaves of bread for a chicken, then my income is the market value of the chicken less the cost of producing the 3 loaves of bread...)Those 'overpaid CEOs' are claiming capital gains on the disposal of shares that they have either:
a) purchased for investment purposes; or
b) received as part of their remuneration package and held for investment purposes.

What you've completely missed is that those nasty CEOs have already paid tax on the market value of the shares that they were given as payment in lieu of cash. Those same nasty CEOs also pay tax when they exercise options that they are given by their company as part of their remuneration package, which is calculated by reference to the difference between the exercise price of the option and the market value of the company's shares at the time the option is granted. So a CEO gets 10,000 options to buy shares in his company for a price of $1 and the company is then trading at $1.50, the CEO is assessed for income tax on the $5,000 discount to the market value.
GJA:

The market value of any property received by a person as compensation or reward for services is income and is taxed as such. Regardless of whether you are paid $100k pa in cash, or $100k pa in piglets, you still pay tax on income of $100k pa!"because negative gearing and the capital gains tax discount on real estate has negative effects on the economy and the standard of living of Australian residents"

The capital gains tax discount was introduced to simplify the overly complicated indexation method for determining the amount of a discount capital gain that was to be included as statutory income.  Prior to September 1985, there was no tax on capital gains and you could still claim deductions for negatively geared property and there was not the same housing price issues as we see today...C of T:

Also, owning a rental property is not a 'business' in the sense that term is used in the tax legislation and hence the non-commercial loss rules do not apply.PW: "Two businesses are two different entities. 

A taxpayer who earns a salary and has rental properties is the same entity"

That's not true. An entity (such as a company, individual or a trust (which is an entity for tax purposes)) can carry on multiple businesses under different trading names.  A business is merely a collection of assets, such as goodwill, plant &amp; equipment and trading stock etc. A business is not an entity in its own right.Tern:

The costs of the rental property are directly attributable to the rental income.  Owning a rental property is not a business and hence the non-commercial loss rules do not apply and the revenue losses that are attributable to the rental income stream are able to be offset against other sources of income for the individual.I suppose the difference in Australia to the US yank, is that here we have had strict gun control measures for a long time and for us it is not the norm to come across someone who is carrying a gun. Also the rest of the citizens are not carrying guns for 'self defence' and hence are left exposed.

What you've failed to see is that the particular 17 year old you are referring to may well be half way across the world. However, he was radicalised here and it is relatively easy (if you know the right people) to get your hands on serious weapons in Australia, making it a real possibility that an attack could be carried out here.the Yank:

How much of the proposed new laws were you expecting Tony Abbot to give detailed explanations of during interviews with reporters that go for less than 10 minutes at a time?

If you want to know about what the proposed new laws say, then go to www.comlaw.gov.au and click on the Parliamentary Bills tab and have a read of the Bill and the explanatory memorandum.  All of which are freely available.Still doesn't change the fact that the proposed legislation and the explanatory memorandum have been freely available on the official government legislation website since it was introduced into parliament.  That website has been the URL for well over 10 years now... It's not like anything has been hidden from the public, rather the general public choose to take sound bites from the tv as their source of information instead of actually going to the source documents to inform themselves..."And this site explains why they are needed and why the present laws weren't good enough?"

Yes it does Yank.  That is precisely what the Explanatory Memorandum which accompanies the Bill is there for.

It sets out what is being changed, why it needs to be changed and what the purpose of the new laws are.

It is also one of the extraneous materials that the Courts will look at when interpreting the meaning of the new laws.What is so dubious about the crimes that are targeted by the new laws?  The crimes are quite clearly spelled out in the relevant offence provisions and make it quite clear what will and will not be unlawful...Isn't it a better idea that all Australians do look up the Bill and read it for themselves, rather than relying on politicians to explain it to them? We all know that the politicians will always just tell you what they think you need to know.

Or we could just rely on the media to tell us about it? But then, the media will also just tell you what it wants to make a story from and not necessarily what is in the Bill.

You can also read the explanatory memorandum, which is the same document that informs the politicians who are voting on the Bill as to why we need such 'draconian measures'. 

Everything is there for people be informed. If they choose not be so, well they deserve what they get.The Explanatory Memorandum that accompanies the Bill does give that insight though... It is also freely available.

The new laws are required because Parliament considers that the current laws are inadequate to deal with the current methodologies with which people recruit for, plan and attempt to carry out terrorist attacks in Australia.  Traditional policing methods are seen to be inadequate for this purpose.

The problem is that the laws are intending to ensure that the authorities can continue to prevent planned terrorist from being carried out, which requires the ability to covertly acquire intelligence of people or groups of people who are suspected of planning to carry out a terrorist attack.

The AFP are hardly the 'secret police'. Anyone can walk into the AFP headquarters closet to them without any concern (unlike ASIO which is a more secure facility).  The deferred notice warrants can be issued to the AFP, it says so in the legislation, and any application must be approved by a Judge (also in the legislation) and any application for a warrant containing misleading information is an offence and carries a 2 year term of imprisonment (also in the legislation).  If you're concerned about this becoming some Gastabo esque  secret hit squad, then perhaps your imagination is getting a little carried away with you...Dave:  it is a constitutionally enshrined power for the Executive of the government to negotiate international agreements on behalf of Australia and then it is required to table those agreements before Parliament to be ratified.

To include public debate on matters of international relations and trade would only impede the ability of the elected government of the day to do what they consider is in the best interests of the country at any point in time.

Also, trade deals tend to be negotiated over a number of years and hence the negotiations are often commenced by the government of one political persuasion and then finalised by another.

How is it any shock that issues relating to intellectual property are skewed in favour of the owners of the IP rights? That is just common sense.  It is like getting upset that property law is skewed in favour of the registered owner of land!Todd:

The laws being discussed in the article do not authorise any law enforcement agency to gather intelligence or evidence in relation to downloading copyright protected material.

There may not have been a successful terrorist attack on Australian soil, however, there has been plans for such attacks which have been thwarted and the suspects prosecuted and convicted.Kindly point to the sections in the Counter Terrorism (Foreign Fighters) Bill 2014 which create an 'all-encompassing miasma of authoritarianism'?

Each of the powers in the new laws has a corresponding oversight power granted to an external body, generally the Courts.

As the world changes, so too do our laws need to change to keep up with the needs of effective law enforcement and intelligence gathering.  What was an effective power to detect and prevent crimes in the 1900's is no longer effective today and requires amendment to ensure that law enforcement does not fall too far behind those who wish to do harm to others.Brian:

ASIO's current powers are for detaining people suspected of planning a terrorist act, they cannot be used to detain any Tom, Dick or Harriet off the street for no reason.  The issue is that the powers are there to prevent attacks as it is in no-one's interest to wait for something to happen/people to die and then arrest the culprits after the event, when it could have been prevented.

The proposed new laws are also there for a specific purpose. So, if the average person is not intending to travel to known conflict zones, or is not in communication with known terrorist organisations, or is not trying to radicalise and recruit people in Australia to fight overseas, then there is nothing to worry about.

Simply because someone may not be permitted to publicly disclose that a warrant has been executed at their house, does not prevent them from challenging the validity of that warrant in the Federal Court.  A similar process is already available for challenging the actions of the Australian Crime Commission which has similar non-disclosure laws.  The action is merely commenced in the federal Court under a pseudonym.Todd:

The pre-existing powers of ASIO, the ACC and the AFP have been used to successfully thwart planned terrorist attacks on Australian soil.  You know, the planned attacks were prevented from occurring so that no one died.  The suspects were arrested, charged, tried and ultimately convicted of the planning a terrorist attack.

From memory, the trial took place in Melbourne. Look it up.I would suggest that the main reason is to bring our current laws into line with the changes to the way that foreign conflicts are being fought.  For example an Australian going overseas to fight for ISIL is not going to be fighting for a 'foreign military' or a 'foreign force' as ISIL is not a State or Country and hence has no 'military'.

Also, the new laws are designed to give sufficient powers to detect and prevent terrorist attacks from occurring in instances where people are recruited for and discuss the planning of a terrorist act without using the internet or telephones and hence there is a need to use other covert means to stay on top of their plans.Have you read the Counter-Terrorism Legislation Amendment (Foreign Fighters) Bill 2014?

It really doesn't sound like you have...

Do you have a source for the allegation that the UK counter-terrorism laws were used to force people to bring their bind in? 

Do you have any sources of information to suggest that ASIO has been abusing its current powers?

The proposed new laws don't actually extend ASIO's powers very far, other than to amend the Migration Act to the extent that there are new provisions dealing with the cancellation and confiscation of travel documents where there is an ASIO security assessment of the person.Since when has the media been the appropriate forum to determine the validity of government actions?  Can't recall seeing that in the Constitution...

Last time I checked, the Judiciary is there to make determinations as to the validity of laws passed by Parliament and the validity of actions taken by government officials.  There has been successful cases of people obtaining declarations that the ACC has overstepped its powers, that various policing agencies have obtained warrants for improper purposes etc.

If the court upholds the warrant, then it can be understood that the warrant was obtained for a proper purpose and within the bounds of the legislation."Please show me what part of the legisaltion would PREVENT that?"

Section 3ZZAA of the Crimes Act 1914 (part of the new legislation in Part 1AAA) - a delayed notification warrant can only be issued to an AFP officer in relation to a terrorism offence that carries a sentence of at least 7 years.

Section 3ZZAD - Such warrant can only be issued by a Judicial officer (i.e. State or Federal Court Judge).

Section 3ZZBA - Sets out the conditions that must be satisfied for the issue of such a warrant. Namely that a terrorism offence is or is suspected of being carried out.

Section 3ZZBC - the application for the warrant must be accompanied by an affidavit sworn by the AFP officer setting out the basis on which the conditions for the warrant are satisfied.

Section 3ZZBH and 3ZZBI - it is an offence for the AFP officer to include misleading information in the application for the delayed notification warrant and is punishable by 2 years imprisonment.

Perhaps each of the above parts of the proposed new law may give you some comfort that the AFP can't use these powers to raid your house for downloading Game of Thrones...

So now apparently an average mum or dad is a terrorism suspect because they download an unauthorised download of copyright protected material?

What needs to be proved before a warrant can be issued is that, in the case of video piracy, the downloading of copyright protected material is being done for resale at a profit and that the reselling of the copyright protected material is being done to support terrorism.

Unless the AFP can convince a Judge that this is the case, the warrant will not be issued.

Without any evidence of, at the very least, reselling the unauthorised downloads, there cannot be any basis upon which the AFP can swear an affidavit stating that they reasonably believe the person is committing a terrorism offence.  If the AFP fudged the affidavit, then they would be guilty of an offence and face up to 2 years imprisonment...It may shock you to know that the law enforcement agencies from State Police, Federal Police, ACC and ASIO can already obtain telephone intercept warrants without needing to tell you about it at all (until you've been charged with an offence and they have to give disclosure).

The fact that the notification is delayed by six months is obviously there to support operational requirements to carry out an investigation into the activities of suspected terrorist organisations in a covert way so that sufficient information can be gathered about their plans and their support network in order for the arrests to be made and for the charges to stick.

If you had any idea of what already goes on in Australia, with the likes of the ACC and it's investigative powers, then you may understand that the proposed new laws aren't really much of an extension of existing laws that are there to combat organised crime.Because, it may become necessary to install listening devices inside a house when the suspects choose to hold meetings in their homes rather than discussing things over the telephone...There is no 'get the warrant later' power. The power is to obtain a warrant that can be executed for a specific purpose and the 'deferral' is only in respect of the requirement to notify the owner of the dwelling that the warrant was executed.  They still need the warrant first.Australia can't declare war on ISIL as ISIL is not a State upon which war can be declared.  It is like suggesting that Australia can declare war on Greenpeace. 

All that Australia can do is to provide military assistance to the countries that are fighting ISIL within their own borders and only when such assistance is approved by that other country (e.g. Iraq).
They would prove their intentions by actually bringing home their son, knowing that by doing so they would be delivering him to the Australian authorities who would question him and most likely charge him with an offence...They explain that their son took off overseas to fight for an overseas militia and then they went over there to try to bring him home.  They get statements from all the people that they told what they were going to be doing, before they left.

Or before they go overseas to such a place, they notify the Dept of Foreign Affairs to request consular assistance to help locate their son, then advise the Dept of their travel plans and the purpose of their travel.  That way they will create their own evidence of where they went and why.Ann, are you suggesting that there's no possible way for a person to demonstrate why they travelled to a particular place?

Even where the onus of proof is placed on the individual, rather than on the Crown, the individual only has to demonstrate on the balance of probabilities (i.e. it is more likely than not to be the case) that they were in a particular place for the purpose for which they contend.  The Crown then needs to disprove the individual's contentions and prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the individual was in fact in the specified place for an unlawful purpose.It's not a matter of scoring points Reddog. The question was asked how they could prove why they went to a conflict zone.

Do you think that someone whose child flew overseas to fight in a foreign militia would follow their child overseas without so much as telling someone what they were doing before they went?  Be realistic.

If the parents were concerned, they would contact the Department of Foreign Affairs and seek consular assistance to intercept their child overseas and have them returned to Australia. That could be achieved by the Australian consulate in the countries where the child is travelling to, or through, to request the assistance of the local law enforcement authorities to detain the child and deport him/her back to Australia under escort by the Australian Consulate.  If they were not getting any help from official channels, one would expect that before travelling overseas to find their child, they would tell other people where they are going and what they intend to do there.  Knowing that these new laws exist, they would likely inform the authorities of their travel plans and their intentions before departing.

The idea that someone would be indefinitely detained just for travelling to a specific country is taking the operation of the new laws to an extreme that is plainly not available on any reading.The new laws actually require the law enforcement agencies to make an application to a court to issue the warrants (just like every other type of search warrant), so there is judicial oversight...Frangipani:  The existing laws do not authorise the law enforcement agencies to enter premises to install a listening device or other covert surveillance devices.  Drug dealers tend to think that by talking on the phone or sending text messages in code is effective, which is why they generally get caught by the use of TI warrants.  People planning a terrorist attack tend to meet in person and do not discuss their plans over telephone or by internet.

There is public oversight in the form of judicial procedures that are reported to the public in the form of the decisions made by the Court.

Jimmy Necktie: Section 3ZZAD of the new laws requires a Judicial officer to grant the application for a warrant after being convinced that the relevant criteria have been met.Perhaps the article is not correctly quoting the legislation.

The relevant provisions are found in Part 1AAA of the Bill and clearly state that it is not merely a rubber stamping exercise to get the warrant.

Also, if there is anything in the application for the warrant that is misleading, then the AFP officer can go to gaol for up to 2 years.Fred:

Under the Australian Crime Commission Act, if you get summonsed by the ACC to be examined (even as a witness and not just as a suspect) by the Commissioner, if you tell anyone that you have been summoned or that you went to the examination, you commit an offence.  You can of course tell your lawyer to get legal advice before you go and to have your lawyer represent you at the examination.

This is just one example of a non-disclosure law that has been around for a long time and is designed to protect the integrity of ongoing investigations by keeping the activities of the investigators confidential until arrests have been made.Frangipani:

We don't have a right to free speech in Australia, we never have. It has always been the case that we are entitled to say whatever we like within the limits of the legislation and common law of the day.  The restrictions on divulging that the law enforcement authorities has been inside your house to spy on your neighbours are there because it is in the public interest for people to not be able to tell all and sundry of an ongoing investigation. To do so would put the investigation at risk.  Such provisions already exist in current laws such as the ACC Act.

There is also no right to free press. Never has been. The press have always been subject to the same laws as the general population.

The right to privacy has also always been subject to specific legislation that permits the government to subvert your right to privacy, such as search warrants, telephone intercept warrants etc.  Perhaps we should all be up in arms to learn that a Quarantine Officer is authorised to enter any premises at any time without a warrant if they have a reasonable basis to believe that there is a quarantine risk.The freedoms of speech that you've cited are highly limited to matters of political discourse and go no further.  Such freedoms are already expressly limited by the offence provisions in the Public Service Act 2002 which prevent public servants from disclosing matters to the public which are classified to a particular security classification.

How is the freedom to discuss political matters relevant to divulging the existence of an ongoing investigation?

There are many cases on Public Interest Immunity which will tell you that there is a greater interest in protecting the methodologies of police investigations from disclosure in the public domain than there is in disclosing whether or not someone's house was entered by the police.

How about if the rationale is that there is an undercover operative that has spent time infiltrating a suspected group and the divulgence of the execution of a warrant would put that person's life at risk?  Is it still not ok?That's not quite true. Only things that are not specifically excluded from being discussed are fair game. If there is a specific law that prevents something being disclosed to the public, then it is plainly not fair game.

Journalists and the general public are in fact subject to the secrecy provisions in the Taxation Administration Act and would commit an offence if they came into possession of 'protected information' and disclosed it.  There's one example for you.

There are other provisions in the Criminal Code 1995 that make it an offence to disclose government information that is subject to security classification, even though that information was leaked to a member of the public who then in turn disclosed it to the media.

The tax legislation is wide open to abuse and the government has to trust 'us' to do the right thing... 

Other investigative powers and the proceeds of crime legislation, with its unexplained wealth provisions, are also open to abuse, yet you trust the same people not to abuse those powers, why are the proposed new laws any less deserving of such trust?and your point is?

braces are generally a remedial procedure to correct defects in the alignment of the teeth to promote better oral health in the future and also has the benefit of making a nice looking smile.

the same can be said for corrective surgery to fix one's nose that has been repeatedly broken.

the difference is taking something that has no actual defect and changing it just because you feel that, cosmetically, what you already have is inadequate is merely self-indulgence.  If that's how you choose to live your life, then more power to you!

I think the only issue with cosmetic surgery is really when people get it done and then deny it, or only get it done as an attempt to fix an underlying issue they have with their self-image and hence are merely masking what is potentially a mental health issue that could be addressed and managed, rather than applying a bandaid and hoping your face doesn't age again...your 'sex' is requested for statistical analysis so that the business or government agency you're dealing with can (so they say) better target their services to the groups that need, or use, it most.

A gender neutral pronoun isn't necessarily the answer though, as transgender people generally identify as being one gender, but not the gender that they were physically born in to.  I would be surprised to hear of people that do not identify as being either male or female, but I'm happy to learn if there is and what the correct title would be...Thanks for responses.  I've learned my something new for the day and at least have some idea of how to describe a person that is non-binary identified or bigender.
Not sure how you came to the conclusion that the passage you quoted has the meaning you're suggesting.

The passage that leads in to your quote, and establishes its context, says:

"The importance of respect is a lesson some people clearly need to learn. A more derisory message from last Monday was from @SecAdvisers tweeted that "God sets our gender, we shouldn't interfere".

It's a tight message, but not one that reflects reality. In fact most uninformed stereotypes don't reflect reality..."

So it is quite clear that the author saying that 'many people's stereotypes of transgender people...' is a reference to that particular stereotype being an example of the types of uninformed stereotypes the author is referring to in the immediately preceding sentence.How do you know I'm not an old man already Ben?

So, by deduction you mean the same way one may deduce that 2 + 2 = 5001?

The author clearly says that respect is a lesson people clearly need to learn and refers to uninformed stereotypes as being evident of people not giving others respect.

How you came to the conclusion that the author was suggesting "that young blokes wearing nicely fitting dresses and natural hair are deserving of human rights (respect) and old blokes with thinning hair and an ageing waistline are not" is beyond the bounds of reason.It's not 'part of their sentence'. Their sentence is the total period of imprisonment that the sentencing Court considers adequately reflects the overall criminality of case, they serve a portion of that term before being released on parole where they remain under supervision, under threat of being imprisoned for the remainder of the term if they reoffend, until the total period of the head sentence finishes.

Being named on a sex offender register is a lifelong burden.

Consider the impact on a 15 year old boy who has a girlfriend that is 14 or 15 and they send each other nude pictures of themselves.  Technically the boy could be charged and convicted of procuring a child to perform an indecent act or producing child pornography.  If convicted, he'd be named on a sex offender register because he and his girlfriend did what many others their age or older do with no issues...
Zing:

The register is not designed to rehabilitate the offender.  Rehabilitation is achieved through psychological intervention and treatment and by reintegrating the offender into society.  After all, rehabilitation is about reintegrating the offender into society so that they can be an ordinary functioning citizen.

By naming a person on a register and 'notifying society that the offender poses a threat' in fact prevents the offender from reintegrating into society as they are driven out of town after town, as was the case of a sex offender released on parole in WA earlier this year.

Also, being named on a register does not prevent the offender from reoffending.  To suggest that it can puts the practical effect of the register far too highly in terms of crime prevention.  Being named on a register does no more to prevent further sexual offences than a violence restraining order does to prevent physical abuse.  In either case, the piece of paper will never stop the person named on it from committing an offence that they would otherwise freely do.

Sex offender registers are only there to appease the masses and give them the illusion that they are safe, or alternatively to assist the lynch mobs to locate past offenders and take their own action as vigilantes.Exactly how will it be less likely to happen to your kids if you knew your neighbour was a sex offender because their name appeared on a register?

If they are the owner of the property what can you do? you will have to move to be away from the problem as you have no rights to force them to move.

If they are renting the property under a residential tenancy, then again, even complaining to their landlord is of no benefit to you. Having a criminal conviction is not an event of default under a residential lease, so as long as they continue to pay their rent, then what can you do other than sell your house and move?  Then you'll get a low sale price because there's a known sex offender living next door!

Unless you are with your children 24 hours a day, even knowing there is a registered sex offender living next door, will not keep your children safe from any other sex offenders...

So you see, the register will achieve nothing more than causing irrational fear and driving down property prices.How did your child's carer get a working with children clearance?

The failure is not in the sex offender register system but in the failure of the criminal history check performed by the people that gave that person clearance to work with children.

Child sex offences are not ones that become spent convictions and are always on the criminal history for precisely this reason.Ben:

People aren't defending sex offenders.

People are expressing an opinion that the sex offender registers do nothing to prevent reoffending, do nothing to assist rehabilitation and only serve the purpose of appeasing the masses by making them think that something is being done.

There already is a national database that will produce a national criminal history check and that is obtained by making the request, for a legitimate purpose, from the AFP who have access to the systems for each State and Territory.

The notional objective of the sex offender register can be achieved through beefing up the working with children checks and perhaps maintaining an up-to-date register for access by law enforcement officers only. 

What purpose is actually served by maintaining a public register? (other than appeasing irrational fears)

A register will never prevent reoffending, so why waste money on it?  That is the point of the article and many peoples comments here.Perhaps just restrict themselves to pointing out misogyny when there is actual evidence of it and not as a mere smokescreen to avoid answering a question about why they have such strong support for a male politician who is alleged to have sexually harassed a male staffer.Lazarus:
Yes that's the same male staffer. That fact does not detract from the then PM's misogyny rant being entirely unrelated to what was actually going on in parliament on the day.

There is still no connection between a male person sexually harassing another male person and misogyny!"Don't think so, bren. Try searching; "The meaning of your tie colour." 

The meaning of my tie colour is to co-ordinate with the rest of my outfit so that I don't look like a fool with a mismatched shirt, suit, tie and shoe combination.  Other than that what else does it say about me that on some days I wear a red tie, others I wear purple, pink, orange, green, blue, silver or several different colours in combination...

Apart from saying that 'I have an assortment of ties' my tie colour selection doesn't say much about me on any given day really! :)I think the lack of comments to this article, knowing the general veracity with which regular commenters would jump on the LNP bashing bandwagon suggests this story is a non event.

Corman's comment was clearly an attempt a humour playing on his German accent and that of Arnold Schwartznegger.

I have been at legal seminars where a lawyer with a German accent made a number of jokes using quotes from Arnold Schwartznegger as an attempt to throw some colour on an otherwise bland topic.

This is plainly political correctness being placed ahead of common sense.One of the three official languages of Belgium is German (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Languages_of_Belgium).

Considering the Belgians and Austrians both share the Germanic language, the accents are similar...  hence Corman has a German accent.

I suppose you also think that Corman saying 'I'll be back' at the end of the same press conference is somehow offensive as well then, seeing as it was a joking reference to the same actor and politician as the 'economic girly man' comment?

Australia used to be a place where people made something of a sport of poking fun at themselves. Sadly, now you can't even do that without offending people...

Perhaps the satirical skits on Mad As Hell should also be condemned for repeating the same allegedly sexist comment when they are poking fun at Corman? Personally I found the Skit on Mad As Hell to be hilarious and not offensive at all, even though it was poking fun at Corman for his accent and the 'economic girly man' comment.NomDePlume:

The problem there is that you're expecting women to denounce another woman who's advanced in the political sphere for making a comment that women now say is derogatory and sexist.

It's the same old story, turn a blind eye when one of your own does something and then come out all guns blazing when the other side says the exact same thing!I see you watched Wall Street - Money Never Sleeps on Saturday night as well then...Applaudanum:

The Governments invest in building infrastructure to attract and retain private enterprise as it is consistent with the Government's business model to increase tax revenue for the purpose of increasing the amenity and services available to the public.

However, governments cannot make such investments in infrastructure without a pre-existing tax base from which the government can demonstrate it has the revenue streams available to meet its borrowing obligations.

Take early Australia as an example.  There was little to no infrastructure during the early days of settlement.  Many roads were constructed by the new landowners while they were clearing their land as it was a necessity for them to have access to a transport network.  They made money from farming activities, paid taxes back to the British Government and money then came back to the Governors of each State to administer the realm on behalf of the British.  Core infrastructure was built using government money and convict labour.  Since those early days, there has always been a steady revenue base, based on taxing the private sector in various forms, from which the governments can either pay for infrastructure, or against which the governments can secure borrowings to pay for infrastructure.

Hence, without business there would be no profits and no taxes from which the government can derive revenue to provide infrastructure and services."I'm sure they do. Yet none of them express a 'contemporary' acount."

Of course none of them express a 'contemporary account' as they all died about 2,000 years ago and hence are not contemporary at all.

If you mean a 'contemporaneous' account, well you would need to look at the Gospels which are predominantly taken from letters sent by the first saints, being Jesus' disciples while he was alive, to various communities of earlier Christians.  Such letters tell of the writers eyewitness account of the life of Jesus.

There are also other contemporaneous accounts of the life of Jesus that are sourced from the historical records of rival religions such as Judaism and Islam."Any CEO remuneration over $250,000 should be paid for out of after tax profits and not be a tax expense like wages for average workers"

This comment fails to take into consideration that the CEO, a natural person, has a top marginal rate of tax of 48% (inc temporary budget repair levy and medicare levy) whereas a company pays a flat rate of 30%.  Therefore the tax on CEO remuneration above $180,000 is about 18% higher than the tax that would collected on the same amount of money retained in the company.

To suggest that a company must pay it's CEO from post-tax income would be to deny a fundamental principle in our tax laws that expenses incurred in the course of gaining assessable income are allowable deductions...Successive federal governments have been reducing (factoring in CPI adjustments) the funding of core departments for the benefit of new departments that are set up to administer the vote grabbing program of the year.

Each year the departments that are established to collect revenue, protect market integrity and protect biosecurity are put under increasing pressure to do more with less.  The ATO, AFP, ACC, ASIC, CDPP, AQIS, Customs and ACCC are each essential departments that are tasked with protecting the revenue, protecting the borders and local industry, and protecting the markets and consumers.

However, they are always stripped of funds which reduces their capacity to:
(1) appropriately staff our borders to provide high levels of intervention to maintain our biosecurity, whilst maintaining efficient processing times (in the case of Customs &amp; AQIS).
(2) investigate tax avoidance schemes, audit taxpayer's treatment of transactions under the tax legislation and prosecute offenders for tax fraud (in the case of the ATO, AFP, ACC and CDPP).
(3) investigate insider trading, share market manipulation, misleading the market and to prosecute offenders and/or commence civil penalty proceedings (in the case of ASIC and CDPP).
(4) investigate and prosecute organised crime (in the case of the ACC, AFP and CDPP).

However, our successive political leaders appear to prefer to allocate funding to endless inquiries and chasing ideological pursuits.Can't say the same about the way Centrelink handle enquiries in the 'customer service centres'.  My mother in law visited to make a new claim for DSP for my father in law after he had a stroke and suffered mild brain damage. After waiting 45 minutes to get attended to she was told 'you have to make the new claim online and we can't help here'.  There are no computers provided at the Centrelink office for people to complete the online forms.

What happens with people that don't have an internet connection? How are they to access social services if people are being turned away at the Centrelink offices and told to apply online?  Mind you, once you've applied online, you still have to go in to Centrelink anyway to bring in all the documentary materials required ... seems like a bit of inefficient use of time.
