Obviously it has escaped Janda's notice that our rates have been too high for too long.

What did anyone expect, in The Land That Time Forgot.

We've had a veritable farrago of the worlds worst governance for 6 years. Interest rates that defied the rest of the world, causing business to disappear - while we slept walk, using cash saved by the Howard government. Our tourist industry, car manufacturing and boat building is on life support. A crippled NBN, that wasn't en costed let alone necessary.

And now there's talk that The ALP could be invited back in?

What are they gonna do? Have we gone completely and utterly insane?

I suppose they could move a few thousand off the dole and into public service in Canberra. That would get them off the streets however eave just a few of us paying their wages.

Or are they gonna seed a few business? No I think not.

Work seems to be fading away, maybe we should hit the miners up for some MRRT, that'll expand their workforce.

I'll never forget what Gillard said, " Wier the invy of the worold"!


You just made that up. He said quite clearly that the browsed site wouldn't be accessed.

It's perplexing really, because we are all precious about our privacy.

In The UK now, there is CCTV on every corner. Now there will be surveillance on our mail. They do this in prison of course, because it's packed with offenders.

I'll have to dwell on this, since I can see both sides and fell empathy with both sides.

Well it's back to the (carrier)pigeon and imitation Groucho Marks nose &amp; glasses. That's the only way that one can be secretive.

I posted a link to an ABC article about snooping and profile building. It's happening now. Even to the extent that they can tell how much alcohol or toothpaste one uses. This affects your insurance premiums, apparently.

The moderators didn't like the long link - so just have a look at articles yesterday.Agreed. Orwell saw it. Huxley and HG, saw it too.

It's sad really and goes against my existentialism and individual-responsibility beliefs.

Still, I suppose that the coming generations will take it for granted. Poor bastards.Of course it's crafty to keep using the smokescreen-watchword; vulnerable.

What citizens of Australia - sometimes known as the electors - want is to stop the rorting and indefensible lazy attitude (she'll be right) of some sections of welfare collection professionals. 

They are blotting up funds that could be used for other services and genuinely vulnerable citizens.You're missing one extremely important component.

People don't need it in their homes.

We all need transport, however do we all need limousines?Informative and quite right. However hasn't the world changed in the last decade?

The world we know now, bears no resemblance to the blocs of yesteryear and China must grapple with it's own internal proletariat ascendancy.

There is more going on (even in Iran) and its 'Stan' Neighbours, in the modern, 'connected' world, than a Russian-Chinese alliance to worry about.

The human clade is evolving faster than historians can chronicle it!Cookie monster, it must be awful, and sad, to worship money, as you do.

I'm quite happy having my own pittance. I don't care what others have.
There's always a correction.

One of the ways to keep inflation down and collect useful revenue, is an avenue that everybody else uses - outside of the land that time forgot. A useful GST rate.

Even in resource rich Kazakhstan it is 15%. We need it to be 25%, with relief for specified vulnerable people; like pensioners and school children.  

Until we get it into our heads, there will be more baleful yelping, like Verrender's .That won't save you.

Having said that, I believe it needs drastic change.

Start dreaming how we can benefit society by collecting consumption tax.

The guzzlers will pay more: - $25 on a bottle of shampoo. They get to guzzle the shampoo. We (the treasury) get 25 bucks.What are the entitlements exactly?

My understanding, from friends who have lost money over the last decade, is that they have been supporting mortgages on properties that are worth less than they paid originally.

They get some relief on their tax (there is usually two income earners), but end up losing.

No wonder it's called negative.They 'are 'young. They are conned by unscrupulous Australian salesman, who spruik the benefits of negative gearing and leave out the statistic that property fluctuates in price

Thousands and thousands of people have lost money as a result. Presumably the treasury recouped some (in tax on the profits) from the developers of these dolls houses.

Of course if The GST was higher we would reap more revenue, and the houses would be more expensive."Then your understanding is wrong."

No, I am correct.

In fact if you carried out any study,  you would find the majority of negative gearing property owners are on low (but two ) incomes.

Negative gearing does benefit the highest earners, however they are in the minority, since super slick Ozzie snake oil salesman entice young couple s to seminars.

They are the people who own the most: medium (combined income earners).Are we importing bricklayers?

I know that we are taking a lot of jobless migrants, but was ignorant of a bricklayer famine.

Or are you saying that bricklaying is so complicated that we need to import experts?Maybe he was thinking that other women are just as valuable as civil servants.You support it for public servants. That's taxpayer's money?

That seems pretty selfish to me.We are the employer. So we are paying - as we would with The Liberal proposed PPL.

There is no difference. Well I suppose there is ONE difference, We pay the gross wage to the public bureaucrats - so we pay their tax too. We just get to move it into other revenue.

There's only one honey-pot (the private sector) and everything comes from that.Alpo, there is only one payer of anything, anywhere in the world: the consumer.

Without something having a use, it doesn't get supplied or bought. The proceeds are then distributed between the supplier (or manufacturer) and the state country).

There's private, and then there is' tax consumption. Many of the services and people in the public sector help the private sector to function, excepting quangos that Laborites form , because they just can't get to grips with productivity.

They just want to dissect the private sector's supply of money.

That's fine. it is a partnership. However it has to be balanced and Labor is too focused on sharing, without thinking about productivity.

look at Cuba; now that the Russian subsides have finished there is a race to provide revenue. it's finally dawned that one has to work to pay for services.

It doesn't matter. We'll keep doping it.With the money they can look after and bond with their children.You have to realise that SO is defending the position, because of personal reliance of public funds, in the past and now as pensions. 

It all comes out of the ordinary person's wage, either in tax or rates.You seemed to make sense until you wrote that Israel are repeatedly breaking cease fires, when the whole of the world, through modern media watched missiles being fired into Israel (who have said that they will meet peace with peace), by Hamas from various sites including schools hospitals and tunnels.

What is truly agonising is how ruthless Hamas can be, by provoking Israel into retaliation, thereby causing young mothers and children to be killed. Of course The Leaders of Hamas are hiding in safe bunkers while they are sacrificing their citizens.Mmm, I agree. Australian actions have made The Ukraine Government bolder.

Still that's probably a good thing in the washup.The conflict has nothing to do with The Australian Government.

"The budget is in a precarious state of imbalance, that much is true"

Hang on, your readers here don't believe that!

They believe that increasing our debt to Norway will fix everything?Norway's history of PPP, is well documented for anyone taking the trouble to study it.

It's not possible for us to go along that path now - although it could be mooted for future projects. 

Personally, I laud it, however the fact remains that we are borrowing their money, so we need to be more prudent, and it is pointless to keep being in a suspended denial - which is what you and your Political Party is!It's the year of success. For liberation of the individual thought, over collectivity.

You'll see -as you are now."Substance is the thing that will get the public vote any day, "

Don't kid yourself.

Shorten has had a boost in the polls, without a single lucid suggestion in 10 months.He's doing a brilliant job. One I wouldn't have thought him capable of.

Stick to gay marriage and questioning Scott Morrison, Algernon. That's where your skills lie.Stuffed Olive, you wrote (earlier) about/promoted Ross Gittins:  it's amazing how your left wing posts keep getting up and my replies don't!

It's a very one sided conversation.

I'll have another go: Gittins, is a left wing ideologue, who perpetually examines local issues.

His remedies seem palatable to you, because they are always versions of the same thing; shuffling tax and encapsulated revenue around.

Australia needs a government that CREATES revenue form overseas. And to do that we need Liberals and Conservatives - not arbiters of collectivism.

It's not something that you would understand, since you are focused on sharing out the diminishing pie, rather than expansion, which has the effect of paying for more services; pensions; welfare; health and even those befuddled academics in their ivory towers, theorising how to enlarge their leather patches on the corduroy sleeves.

In other words we need foreign revenue, not shifting encapsulated  funds in imaginary and temporary remedies to boost small factors.

Some in here are complaining that there are not enough jobs, so the taxpayer must fund a bigger, and growing, dole que.

let the job creators have their heads and let us be more productive.

We cant build ships and we can't build cars. We can't even answer our own telephones!

The ALP getting another guernsey will be poisonous for our economy.

Can you imagine Wong( she's been in the worst government in the world along with Bowen) and Bowen teamed up with Shorten?

It's scary. Stick to same sex marriage and persecuting Morrison for secrecy. As if that will save the economy.
I luvs her. She's the best of the bunch and is getting on well with all Nations.I have been shot at. It churns your tummy. However it's too late to do anything, after the gun has fired.

I think that it was more of a personal guard that was envisage. I can't imagine separatist goons being allowed to bring more wrath down than they have.

Don't forget, Colonel Putin is very sensitive about his image- especially now that The EU has turned on him.

Like a lot of dictators he's probably a coward and vain.Actually, it may get worse. now that The A(union)LP, is rejecting measures that 'they' proposed.

Sad little comrades.

Tell me, while your there, how would Bill Shorten increase revenue and exports? And how would he help industry become more productive?

You know the Employers?

Not the Employers that you know (and worked for); us - the taxpayers. The 'real' employers!

He is lost Shorten. A little boy scout, who was 7.5% down on the previous local vote. That's before they heard him talk about International affairs.
Now that they know that he can't, he'll get the brush off."are shooting at people they percieve as opposing their authority"

Are you sure?

No foreigners have been shot....yet.No-one has admitted to shooting down the Malaysian passenger jet - yet. So the circumstances are different.

Unless 'you' know of course.Actually, they have the strident and increasingly hysterical Shorten to blame.

It's amazing how the sheep follow his nonsensical uttering.

He say anything and even contradict himself just to make a point about personalities.

Let's hope he doesn't stay; either in or out of government.

Australia will not be a nice place to live with him around.Care to have a bet, Alpo?

I predict a landslide : an absolute KO of The ALP: as the unemployment rises, it will become obvious that the only ranks that will swell will be the dole queue, if Labor gets another chance of repaying their last farrago.

How much do you wan to wager? Your reputation? A predicted event that fails to eventuate?You failed last time.The ABC, should remain a taxpayer organ, however should strive to obtain a more neutral agenda and viewpoint. 

It's depressing to see blatant support for one side only in most of the content.

Now, I haven't even had to spell it out (which political party the bias favours). And when it's 'that understood' -there's a problem.

Let's be honest.Judy, I have been reading and watching their programmes and articles for years.

It is biased reporting. Blatant lobbying, promoting and prejudiced.

It's not a good look, unfortunately. 

One can forgive partisan blogs ect, however not a media outlet that abuses it's funders, by promoting only a blinkered view.FEAR: The narrative from Comrades Bowen, Albanese and Shorten, is about fear.

They never mention that we don't have any money to build huge public transport projects or the other empty promises that they make. They just keep reiterating the same old fear-mongering nonsense about how Hockey doesn't get it and they can save the world, with thought bubbles that we can't afford.

I'm not critiquing aspirations here. Aspirations are good. I'm pointing out that they  want to whip up hysteria in their congregation about lack of, well, anything really. Yet won't stand up and be responsible for it: (the lack of money.)


I'll still chuckle over Swan's Surplus till the day Alzheimer's gets me.

Yes, make no mistake, it's (the fear of not getting)the tactic of the left. It shines through in all of Green's essays. Moribund in gloom and feigned alternatives.

I must say, I don't blame them: it's the only weapon in their armoury. Similar to the dialogue that ISIS dish out to their foolish followers.
Alas, I can but grieve with you.
If only..................................Maybe Malcolm can save us, as long as The ABC doesn't keep hounding him.Our PM, did the right thing in examining the possibilities of helping as a human tragedy appeared to unfold.

No one knew till the area was inspected.

It was certainly good preparedness on our PM's part. Better than waffling and being caught unaware, Just as our country was when The ALP introduced the asylum welcoming policy, that slaughtered 1200 people and open up concentration camps.

One never here's an apology. Just more hot air about infrastructure spending. It's quite deceitful and disgraceful really. I hope that The ALP are out of governance for at least another10 years, to enable us to stabilise.Correct. What you get out of life will be commensurate with your skills, IQ and effort, wealth-wise. I suppose, I should factor in luck somewhere, for some.

The sick and needy, are another matter altogether.

Chronically ill people don't pay.

Nor do those that can feign it successfully."The simple fact is this government does not have an industry plan"!

There is nothing that sums up the left more than your comment John.

It is not politicians' role to have industry plans. They would be astute business people if that were the case.

Their job is to get out of the way and just help with making exports and manufacturing easier.

Can you imagine The ALP, replicating their NBN blunders in the real commercial world?

The ALP should stick to what it does best: help the unions to flatten Australian productivity.Their polices will help not hinder.

That's a general plan to assist business(employers), not  a plan to industrialise, but to stimulate and help the seed.

You must be used to that: like The MRRT, and the gifts to American companies, General Motors ect.

And your own words: "Thanks to six years of labor all we have seen is companies downsizing or leaving this country. We just have not felt the full effect yet of that downsizing and exiting of this country as it is still a work in progress. What will our unemployment rate be once that timeline is completed? How much higher will it be?"

Or were you trying to pretend that The liberal party are frightening the business that you say support them. pleeeeseI was just in, 'the rest of the world'.

They find their systems OK. Most of them are on the move; using mobiles phablets and note pads. 

There is wifi on ever corner.

If you want to do business then do it from a business location, not from Bruce and Nereda's shack.

You are completely mad. Why  does Bruce need 10gs per sec to do gold lotto?

I am extremely busy, yet only need about 12-35 mbs.

Wait till you get 5G, then you'll be right. You can order your Brittaniccas on-line and carry them up the driveway.

I have a car that does 180kph. Do you want a car that does 180 kph?

Just tell this forum why YOU need this high speed?So what would have happened if we left Saddam alone?

A garden of Eden?You will live even longer if you fast every few days. A side effect will be a reduction in diabetes, Alzheimer's and heart attacks.Of course that's why Labor proposed The NBN. They're are inherently, busybodies.Not sure how a vacuous post like yours gets up and my detailed chronicle didn't.

It's a funny world. And biased moderation, I suppose.

What on earth does this* mean, and why was it passed?...*."Abbott and Bishop are so far out of their depth its just cringeworthy, and illustrates a fundamental lack of socio-economic empathy.Of course sanctions work to a degree.

Starving a castle full of people forces them to surrender eventually.

The problem with ISIS, is that they are fanatical miscreants, and need some hydra-head-beheading, before the  rest will acquiesce.

Don't forget that The majority of Syrians, Iraqis and troubled followers of radical Islam have an (approx) average IQ of 87. (Australian's; 97.)

So believing all of the radical nonsense is easier for them.
No it isn't!

If you can make a sweeping statement, expecting it to ring true, without a scintilla of evidence, so can I. 

However, in my defence, I'll note that although there are many theories that The USD, may be usurped by another in the petrocurrency trading sphere, The Power of The USD internationally is not waning.

Recently, I couldn't find anyone in Rome willing to take AUSD American Express travellers cheques.

While I admit the use of traveller's cheques is declining in favour of CCS, it was quite an eye opener trundling around the major banks in Italy, to find out that the Australian dollar is just regarded as monopoly money.I suppose it's a lot easier to do nothing; like being on the dole.There is only one way, and that is to do what is right, because we owe it to who follows over the next few thousands of years.

It's like pollution - it effects all of us - eventually.'Much ado about Nothing', using the Elizabethan  slang of Shakespeare.

It's a shame that The ABC can't attract superior writers. Cassidy, being a one trick pony.

He's good at what he does, but it's just monotonous.

At least Shakespeare, made flummery comical.Like a lot of people in the private sector, who borrow to buy non income producing goods; expensive houses, leather furniture, luxury cars and granite kitchens, they are in denial.Save wages. Sack the State Governments.

With the flow of people into the private sector we could look at productivity, as I am sure that they could learn to do proper work.I hope that you don't mind me asking, politely, if you are deranged? I wrote nothing about cutting services, just that the governance from the middle tier should disappear.

We only need a federal government for our tiny population. How silly is it that we have separate jurisdictions? Plumbers and policeman have different rules. Crazy!

Local councils can do the rest.You're off course , again!

I have teachers, academics and 'all sorts', in the family. Their lives would not be affected.

What I am writing about is t5he silly duplication of bureaucracy and diverse regulation.Nothing's impossible rusty.

I'll just keep niggling away, and hope that it influences someone; maybe start a groundswell. You know the sort of thing you guys do when banging on about Abbott being a misogynist, or the right doesn't care about the environment, because we could see how pathetic the CT tax was.
A good job that Swannee wasn't the CEO. We'd be losing zillions.A brilliant comebackatism.Why can't the less well off, accept the fact that...well, they are less well off?A sensible reply!

God, I'm taken aback. Well done.I have never met a human that hates people, just because of their wealth or lack of it.

My friends include people from all walks of life; some of the happiest being those that are content with what they have. I have family members who are content.

When I was poor, I never felt envy or indeed any rapacious desire to have other people's money or lifestyle. I've always been content with what I make of my life and my surroundings.

The left never stop exhibiting greed for things that are beyond their achievable attainment.

Not only that, the Liberals that I know, want to distribute as much to the needy as is possible.

Do you understand that bit? 'As is possible'.

That means what's affordable. Not what you can get by borrowing money from Norway.

Of course the problem in Australia, is that the three tiers of governance soak up too much cash - like blotting paper.  We should get rid of State governments and use the money for education (amongst other things).

I'd go further and say that it is fraudulent.Well you want an NBN, that we don't have the money for, and further study seems to show that it was  a rushed foolish decision.

In my view there are thousands of homes that don't need higher speeds than 10-24mbps. In fact 5mbps is OK.

But of course the greed of getting it paid for by those who are actually paying tax, just overcomes the sensibility."Is there any doubt that Abbott obtained government through ruthless opposition?"

Yes there is. We had a very dysfunctional ALP alliance. it was acknowledge by left and right thinkers.

The CT was pointless, people were filling up Camps, if they lived past the boat journey and all but the delirious could see that the economy was descending into chaos, with vehicle and other  manufactures  heralding their concern (predicting closures and lay offs) and you know the rest.When one becomes conditioned to truncated threads and idiotic insults left up without the right of reply, one tends to make quick sorties.

This affects the whole substance.

I find jumping in, and being abstract, more fun, especially seeing the incomprehension.One of the ways to foment vacuous Twitter style headlines is to display examples in our national organ: the taxpayer's ABC.

This morning when I switch on my phablet, I saw that the headlines were a comment by an obscure WA senator : Sue Lines. Her claim to fame being a member of the United Voice trade union.

How an earth can an editor condone a silly air-headed comment as a national headline?

Instead of focusing on 'important' matters of the moment - and there are myriad - especially International, we get a comment up as being of national importance.

No wonder people feel that their own silly "Twitter Trumpeting", is interesting!Of course the students don't pay until they are wealthy; having got good jobs with their fine education.

Then no doubt they will be vilified(by the ALP) for being successful ( and earning a poultice) - and leave for Europe or The US.Look, I stand to be corrected, however I thought that they only start repaying the debt once a certain threshold of income is reached.

That's what my 3 kids did. They paid it all back and were grateful of the help at the time.

I can't get my head around the fact that some people want a fabulous start in life, and don't want to repay the public who funded them in the first place.

This whole ethos is just wrong.@Mark: do you know how much the petrol increase is?

It's so minuscule as to be unwarranted of carping.They promised the Australian people that they would get the economy back on track. One would have to be a remedial ( or sleep walking)to not know that there was going to be rectification...Especially after the reign of Windsor, Gillard, Oakshott, Rudd and Swannee - all gone AWOL now, of course!

Why this obsession in Australia with ever little utterance by a politician.

Can't you focus on: 'How to we turn around our finances and help employees to employ'?

What do you think should be done to help ease red tape, encourage productivity and stop this spiral of (foretasted) debt: $666 billion?Ask me.

I trust 'my' intuition and judgement.

Labor cannot win. The new voters coming up through the ranks are not writing in here and definitely not answering fones that are tethered to 'premises'.

No they are carrying their nodes around and won't need unions or Silly Billies like Shorten to lecture them.

Malcolm, has the appeal and sensibility that they want. They know that he talks sense and has analysed The NBN proposals.

It's no good polling dinosaurs. Especially in here.

10 loong years for you Yank. Sorry mate.

If Labor win, I'll change my name to ABC.I imagine most of it went on purchasing Chinese imported goods.The fact is that Telstra  outsources its manual work too. Plenty of competent workers install hard infrastructure everyday - and undertake time frames - something that never happened under government bodies.

We have done away with our hardware telephony now (even for facsimiles) and use 4G, so the manual work has decreased anyway.

We should stop breeding apprentices!Spot on. And I've said so on many occasion.

Labor is basically a committee. They should never be allowed to govern.Well, I've had 3 responses censored; in lieu, it seems of the usual left gobbledegook.

I'll try one to you Algy.

Based on the last 12 months, I'd say that 'this lot' have got a clue how to govern.

You see it's all a matter of perception. You think one thing, and I think another.

In your case you're absolutely convinced that you know better - as do the other Drum regulars. That's why you blog in here. It's comforting isn't it, to be surrounded by like minded carpers?

You complained about TA, all the way through the six horrendous Labor years...And now that the medicine has been scripted to rectify those foolish excesses (political of course - as Swannee, admits), you cry foul.

How did you think that it was all gonna get paid for?

Borrow some more from Norway, I suppose?

Labor will be in exile for at least ten years,. I told you that last week. Burke will be getting ready to be leader of the opposition for his challenge once the economy has been rectified. The kooky Labor promises will seem viable then.

Although, Its hard to see how anyone will be able to trump Malcolm's intellect, once he gets a Guernsey...He could be there for 15 years.The treasurer didn't berate the poor. he used a statistic that he deemed correct. Of course it was correct in the overall scheme of things, but not in terms percentage of income.

He probably shouldn't have said it, however, it gets boring when you and some of the inferior reporters keep on focusing on politician's words instead of the real problems: Labor's recurring and  - usually-perpetual-legacy: including job losses.

As for The Senate: please?

Now, you wrote, "he's struck dumb". They laid out a plan:- The Budget.

Somebody wrote that it's 90% through. They can't be that dumb.

There's just a few loose ends. And I'm on your side in agreeing that a few things need negotiating...Medicare fopr one.  It's always that way. (pre-dates modern civilisation)

Remember when Windsor, sold his soul for personal gain. It's part of the patina: negotiating.
Just a small point of order: Tony Blair was Labor politician.

There were also another 30 or so nations involved in the Iraq War, and as you seem oblivious to it, I can only think that you write without thinking. or in the alternative with complete ignorance.


Labor's continued spiteful intransigence, will be manna for The Libs.

Watch the polls over the next few weeks.I'm quite sanguine; not given to the hysteria inherent in The Left.

The measures in The Budget will get through, perhaps with the usual modification.

By the time we get around to the next election the reality will sink in. Shorten, Milne and Bowen's whining, will have backfired.

No wonder Burke, is keeping his mouth shut... He knows he's probably the next leader in opposition and is keeping his powder dry for The 46th Parliament.

By then the country will be up and running and the promises from Labor will seem achievable. Then we'll have another run of wastefulness before the public wake up.

And so it goes.People always oppose rectification.

Obviously, it would be far easier to borrow more as our manufacturing flounders and we suffer increasiingly bad productivity.

The problem is that half of the country are supporting the other half.

Now that's not a partisan comment; it's just a fact.You're incorrect. Thanks to an huge expansion to the family payments system, only half of Aussie households today are net contributors to government coffers ? the others receive more in benefits than they pay in tax.

It may seem that way, because you've' been indoctrinated by the Hysteria that Shorten has whipped up.

Glen Stevens doest see it that way. Sir Trent Jolly too damned GoodDuty free is a waste of time these days. Desperate Aussie retailers are flogging perfume cheaper than the airports - and I don't drink alcohol, so any bottles are gifts, and I might as well buy them locally, when I need them.

The best thing for the economy is to increase the number of employers. Full Stop!

It's the same the world over - and has been since we branched out from agrarianism ( &amp; hunting).

Each person, then each family and then each country is a microcosm of the universe. Everything needs sustenance, either from the elements or (money) to buy a ute with alloy wheels.

In the case of a family the providers sustain the minors. In our country, the miners sustain the providers. The provoiders in this case are the taxpayers. Those that are in the private sector. They provide 100% of the cash. Of course they need to be in tandem with civl servants as a partnership, to help bring in the loot. You can't pay a fireman or a policeman with tax from a Canberran Bureaucrat, since we pay their gross wage.

I was being flippant of course. Mining is not our only source of income.

No 1 is Iron ore and its derivatives, 2) is coal) 3) educational services 4)natural gas, with  beef (and meat), crude petroleum, wheat, copper, aluminium ,coal  and tourism, to name a few sources.

Without exports the country gradually dies and descend into poverty. This has happened throughout the world in times gone by ( I could sit several examples). Recently Cuba of course has had to evoke and embrace Capitalism, to replace the Russian handouts.

It is just impossible for The labor philosophy to work in any modern society. Their ethos is all wrong -not in helping the poor - however in not realising that instead of concentrating on stripping the middle class; trying to create a class war and just trying to bring everyone down to enjoy their own love of abject misery.

Their philosophy is a non sequiter. It's just not in our chemistry. In fact not in any life form or the universe as we know it.

The only way to give a leg up to the needy, is to help the employers and encourage them to be successful, so that they can pay more tax - and their employees can too. Having multitudinous layers of government and red tape, doesn't help us provide. Remember how I said that the providers of the family need to have something to provide.

You can't get form other people! Only from importing it. Importing it into a family; a village; a town an region or a country.

Labor can't do that and never will be able to. They are dysfunctional. And we've just had a six year prima face illustration!






Don't forget my 'family' analogy Dandelion.

One looks after the weaker and afflicted, however to do it one works like crazy to provide.

So in essence, I agree entirely with helping the needy and especially pensioners, who lose their voice (power) . 

What we have to do is encourage productivity (and innovation): that's the simple distillation. Not eat the carcass of every scrap of sinew, of the providers.

We need to get rid of State Governments ( they are a pestilence). And stop worrying about wealthy people, like Bill Gates: Richard Branson; Paul McCartney and Gina Rheinhard.

There will always be the wealthy. Stop obsessing about them.PS, rusty. I never said that there was an emergency. However we were on our way to one.

Much better to nip it in the bud, rather than lumber the progeny, don't you think?If I may, can I please edit your last phrase (in parenthesis), and delete the word, 'sometimes'.

Thank you in anticipation, Dandelion.

Yours Truly.It's a pretty sad indictment of The Labor Party, if you are saying that even after controlling the economy for 6 years they were voted out by The ABC and Fairfax's opposition (Murdoch.... According to the Finkelstein Review of Media and Media Regulation, in 2011 News Corp Australia (then News Limited) accounted for 23% of the newspaper titles in Australia.) to Labor's support??It's a pretty sad indictment of The Labor Party, if you are saying that even after controlling the economy for 6 years they were voted out by The ABC and Fairfax's opposition (Murdoch.... According to the Finkelstein Review of Media and Media Regulation, in 2011 News Corp Australia (then News Limited) accounted for 23% of the newspaper titles in Australia.) to Labor's support??The fact is that newscorp accounts for 23%..
That's the FACT.What you're seeing of Islam now is of course the reality.

It's far more violent than other types of worship, since we have gone away from Church control to democracies.

Their leadership don't stand up and protest. And when ewe protest we are called racists.

Any thinking that relies on the fear of an invisible deity who's wishes are construed through priests and other such claimants (of contact), is completely and utterly stupid.

It's time to consider laws that confine religious worship, clothing and promoting to people's homes.

It should be illegal to proselyte any religion too.

Or, maybe we will find that invisible god? Well I won't because I'm not looking.That's why I wrote, 'any' religion.

Of course they do have Mullahs, clerics and Imams.

The sad fact is that 90% of humans are probably in need of believing this fantasy.These blogs are becoming populated with more and more bizarre ranters everyday - akin to the way out conspiracy forums.

Anyone with a modicum of lucidity seems to have fled. I hope that The ABC starts to moderate these repetitive rhetorical phrase; 'clowns' and, 'doesn't get it', 'Gin's ripping us off' blah blah... seem at the very limits of literacy in here now.

It's the same old stuff everyday. Sigh.I dunno, about that one. I guess it will evolve. No doubt there is some licentiously orientated editor waiting to pay for a story.

One used to be able to have a discussion in here, however the format of disallowing thread and loading in articles quickly, leads to word-farting.

I see the same poster (varying their pseuds) repeating the same old phrases; typically Hockey doesn't get it. What the hell does that mean? I suppose it lets one off the hook form actually explain where we get revenue from for each of the proposals that The Senate (a joke now) turns down.

And now we see Martin Ferguson assassinated for telling the truth.You should travel a little more.

There are no poor Australians.The UN and/or Nato, should go hard and relentlessly, just as any force in the World would after murders and despicable crimes.

They need to be decapitated and contained. And the locals reinstalled.

We could remove Assad, while were at it, befriend The Kurds and the new Iraqi leadership.They may well be from where you say. Educated they are not! Indoctrinated possibly, however it doesn't take much to pushing to give psychopaths an excuse to murder.Excellent and salient point.

My suspicion is that Shorten is unelectable and their only plan is to spend.

They're hesitant about promoting the increase in credit that they need, so it's easier to obfuscate and be obstructive.

Their pet slogan - as parroted in here: "hockey doesn't get it", or "Tony Abbott doesn't get it", or 'Cormann doesn't get it.''
It's about time a journalist asked Shorten or Bowen, where they would get the money from. This country is sadly lacking in knowledgeable journalists.Correction there: won over by employers the ones who supply jobs - both to the individual and public service through their taxes.Green, missed quoting the number of taxpayers that Australia relies on for income. Not counting local, State and Federal government employees of course, since the private sector provided all of their gross wage, superannuation and running expenses.

Most of them do a fantastic job, so I am not criticising them - and indeed it is an essential partnership. 

I am just pointing out that there is a finite amount of revenue available and all of the spin about spending; both from financially comfortable journalists and ALP politicians, ignore the fact that we need foreign revenue to run our country.

When we lose industry, whether through laziness, red tape, uncompetitive cultures, or failing to upgrade to more automaticity, it affects our bottom line income.

Nothing that I have ever heard from a reporter of green's ilk, adds anything to the debate. In fact most local reporters troll out a litany of cherry-picked irrelevancy.They would have been put on hold while Gillard and the Rudd twin farragos were playing out.

Nobody was game to anything with those clowns in cahrge.". In the past year we bought 1.1 million new motor vehicles - nearly 59 new vehicles for every 1000 adults."

What do we do with the old cars that these new ones are replacing?

When I was poor, I didn't own a car. It was too expensive to run.

I can't afford a helicopter now, so I won't buy one of those.

Surely poor people should consider, not buying and maintaining a car, just as I did.I was a carer for my mother. her disability gave her a variety of transport offers. The council subsides taxis and several welfare organisations had lifts available.

All cheaper than running a car, with it's associated cost of tax, fuel maintenance and insurance.

The RACQ says that it costs between $7- $8k pa to run a car.

Not knowing how many times that you have to visit the doctor, however factoring in 10 times a yera, it would surely make sense to take advantage of these subsides trips, or simply get a taxi.

Further, if you choose a doctor near a shopping centre - which they often are - you could combine the trip and save yourselves the expense of owning a vehicle.

In fact you would probably have money left over to spend at Christmas time.

Perhaps a bottle of port for your good lady?I agree entirely. to verify the veracity of his statement we would need the location and situation.

Obviously one keeps personal details off the web, however the problem here is that people just make things up.Actually, the buses were ever tow hours. I waited to walk to the stop on time.

Cars are not for poor people, they should stock up the freezer - or order on line.

My daughter-in-law (in The UK) orders once a week from Tescos, who deliver.

I am sure that they could do that here  - and only need about 2-5mps.

Why would I read all of the previous posts here - when I have over 60 years of experiencing folks telling the truth?

No offence.Actually, I engage with people from all walks of life, and have lived in Spain and Indonesia; bedsits in London and houses with swimming pools.

One can even have the most fascinating conversations, just walking the dogs in a large park (5 years). There are business people, tradies, retired librarians (a retired Yank helicopter pilot, domiciled here), builders, teachers, nurses, doctors, solicitors park rangers, bee-keepers, writers, shoe-shiners, constant gardeners; airline stewardesses, myriad active and retired bureaucrats; fisherman, car-sales persons, dentists, parsons and priests; teenagers from all types of schools. People in wheelchairs, people with walkers. Watched  two children come from a bump to toddlers. 

Maybe I'm just a nosey Parker, however all spectrums get discussed - even the weather sometimes.

Peter &amp; Jackie are always going in the wrong direction. Why don't they go back?

Of course with the level of intellect in The Senate (now) matching The ALP leadership, only a DD while sweep the cobwebs away.The State Governments should be dissolved contemporaneously with establishing consumption tax at around 20-24%, excluding children's clothes and pensioners holding a relaxation card for certain commodities and utilities.

Problem solved.Don't you have a Council?Well what role do they play

Why do you need a full parliament as well?

..And then another one at Federal level?The State Governments should be dissolved contemporaneously with establishing consumption tax at around 20-24%, excluding children's clothes and pensioners holding a relaxation card for certain commodities and utilities.

Problem solved.Bishop: Just brilliant.

She's leadership material and must be the envy of all The drab Labor politicians, both for her aplomb (as I wrote 6 moths ago), her intellect, demeanour, unflustered appearance, poise and her articulate enunciation.

The opposition, are like raggedy-Annes in comparison.

It's a pleasure to see the spite of the left trying to dig up dirt on her, displaying once again their fabulous and rigorous modus operandi of character assassination, in the face of NO PLAN, to rescue the country from their own failures.Why would people support a rectification budget, when Labor are promoting, 'go with us and don't you worry, we can afford more debt'?Only roosters strut. 

Bishop seems to glide around with ease and reciprocated bonhomie.

And as you have got me back again, I'll just say, "doesn't it make you feel proud to be Australian, when you see her obvious accomplishment?"She seems a bit one dimensional to me.??

Trust me Algernon, from anyone who's familiar with your myopic sentiment - that's a compliment.

I see her, and Malcolm, complimenting Tony's somewhat abrasive and forthrightness.  

In fact as Malcolm ascends, be prepared for 10 years in opposition.

You can't keep Shorten. He's on the nose with anyone that has transitioned from adolescence. So who will you have?

Well there must be a union solicitor or an advocate waiting in the wings, I suppose." we do not ask their permission, only their understanding" regarding the LNP turn back the boats policy."

Just brilliant. Articulate and factual. 

That's the way to get respect. Unlike Keating who called Malaysia recalcitrant.

Compare her to Rudd, as per Wayne's World (his book).You must have missed my post Alpo; wherein I informed you that Labor won't get in for ten years.

...And possibly never, if they don't pursue policies that take into account the younger set with aspirations - who don't need regimenting and unions.

Trust me, I'm a Capitocialist !My heartfelt sympathies go out to Verrender. I mean that sincerely.

It must be hard for a perennial carper to find something viscous to write in a week of triumphs.

But he diligently manged it and overcame all odds on getting some sort of (predictable)copy in on time.

Ten out of ten for finding a 'chink' of gloom.I never point out mistakes, unless'en they make the post unintelligible.

I type on multiple mobile devices and one can't always see the lines above or even decipher the spell check, when it's automatic - as on Windows 8.1 Lumia mobile.

Kelly, was a good student and an excellent worker, with vision.I'm guessing that the properties were revalued at less than the purchase price, meaning that  there was a shortfall in real equity.

That's the problem with some loans that have to be re-calibrated every few years.I have always found that the harder I worked, the luckier I got.I won't be an Australian then. Most of them are working abroadOMG, a sensible article from The ABC. And much appreciated.

Totalitarian states can make decisions quickly. That's about the only advantage over a democracy.

There is still much to play out and lets see what transpires in Hong Kong, with the locals flexing their muscles. it will be interesting to see how a middle class, used to getting their own way through bribing, become disgruntled when some of them fall out of favor at The Party's whim.

They may start to wonder what a democracy would be like.It's amazing how they can be lauded for increasing their output.

It makes one shake one's head in disbelief.

Like wise, Obama, can promise what he likes, since he won't be around.
'
However, the most salient goal is that China and The US 'do' cut emissions. 'We' are not in the top ten.

That doesn't mean that we shouldn't cut emissions. It just means that what we do, is of 'no' effect, unless the main emitters reduce their output.The leader of the world's biggest democracy wrote (repeated here on ABC) that he was the perfecxt host, friendly, sincere and warm hearted.

As usual you are just making things up, that have no basis in reality.

Who has more credence, you; a party committee member from a tiny town in the bush or the leader of 'The World's biggest democracy'?"The Shirtfront", was a metaphor for a discussion that he carried out.

Now who's embarrassed?A metaphor, is a metaphor.it should go in The Oxford Dictionary.

It's an absolutely brilliant metaphor; just brilliant.

I can see it being used more and more now. Just like the Ozzie way of doing business., "She'll be Right".

I have emailed my friends in The UK. Their reckon, it's 'just smashing'. Metaphorically speaking of course.Do you have any evidence that it didn't?The real point, is that they get to mingle and say things directly and in confidence. There may be an interpret present, however the 5 minute speeches are just motherhood platitudes.

It has taken 1 year behind the scenes to set up side agendas and general agreements, but the real goals tenets are conveyed with the eyes and frank one on ones.

That's what Putin didn't like when he was shirt-fronted by the people that matter.Another embarrassing own-shirtfront by The ABC - trying to put The Australian Government down.

Please, please stop this, so that more-mainstream bloggers can be bothered to read genuine news, and we can get honest opinion.
In English please.What you appear to be writing, is praise of The Coalition for modifying their views?

I enjoyed watching our future PM, discussing world and local affairs with David Speers.. He was articulate and staggeringly knowledgeable.

Once Josh Frydenberg, becomes PM, I think that he will be there for at least 15 years.Future growth in The Planet &amp; its inhabitants, will rely on sterilization.

Once we come to accept that, we will be, individually, more prosperous; mentally and physically.

I am not sure how it can be achieved. However without it we will be polluting the other planets, if we ever get there.

Well it's an inherent desire of course, and will be a sacrifice at first.Good point. All religions are nonsense.

One would have to be a lunatic to believe in the supernatural...Yet many do - so it must be me.

Having said that, I just enjoyed walking around The Basilica and being herded through the Sistine Chapel. Still not every mammoth work of art is attributable to religion.I know, why don't we build a 90 billion dollar NBN?

That'll help the budget.

Barrie's mind is interesting, because he writes that Abooot, has hassles over APEC and The G20, yet it's only one or two Australian journalists (Peter Hartcher, being another), that think so.

Overseas, people concentrate on the rhetoric between Russia, Europe and China - with no-one being aware of what our PM says! Oh except for one thing: he stood up to Putin. They admire him for that.

Journalists should stop attaching more glory/weight to their (the journalists) opinions, than there is.

of course the world is transitioning to renewable technologies. it's for a range of reasons and has been happening for 20 years. However it will take time.

Coal demand is cyclical. And now that it has softened, it highlights the problems that The ALP were leading us into.

Would anyone vote them back in??

He's the best MP of the last 7 years. And to dispute that would be risible. (I'd love to see you try.)

The Left keep yelling that Abooot, is scum (it's been printed in here) and that he's an idiot. Some of the sheep will go along with this, however the realty is that he's doing good job, despite his silly blurts every now and again.

He's more popular than Shorten, which must mean that some on The Left prefer him??
The future is mobile technology. If you don't know that you really shouldn't comment.

Fiber-optic is the fastest and should be used in The Health Corporations and services; together with any other business that needs it.

5G is being trialed in Korea and The UK: it's the future. And terrestrial.It should be rolled out in cities. Korea is 0.01 times the size of Australia.

5G will take care of bandwidth.

Yes, Google is private enterprise and doing exactly what it should...Rolling out fiber to CITIES.Google is not The ALP. It's a private company, investing in private business. 

Yo do remember that The NBN, was to go to ALL homes. Including Naerada and Bluey, who  only do gold lotto.

Ask Google if they wan to run cable to their home.I can't be left behind . I'm connected 24 hrs a day, everywhere.

I' use 4G and 3G.Kelly, is an educated and resourceful women, that hasn't had to experience the political polarization of The Australian Education system.

Those of us that have been fortunate enough to have been educated overseas have a broader perspective of the world and its interactions.

Unlike, say Gillard, groomed into the union ethos that pervades Australia. Or say, Pilberseck who has become increasingly vacant.

If that sounds like boasting or being a smart arse, so be it.

She (Kelly) is  the proof of women's potential. AND a competent mother!!Gillard, is an example of the way women shouldn't get to the top. She did it on the back of the unions and proved to be a damp squib and was sacked.

Her involvement with our governance was pitiful ad dysfunctional. That's pretty much universally acknowledged.

Kelly, may have had a better education than I did. She's also brighter and smarter.An example??

She was sacked, or have you missed the last few years, of ALP farragoes?This is a woman who, apparently, was - so she says -  unaware that cash she took from her lover was tainted, and you say that she was brilliant?

Wow, this highlights the stupidity arguing with you, really.

I apologies; it's my fault.The evidence is what she said. She testified that she was in ignorance of his felony.Life is all about choices. I have a holiday home here for 8 months of the year. I chose that.

You didn't have a choice, as you were born here; captive to the culture. And your religion of course - a most undesirable influence.Well, in here one can't quote from personal experience as it supposed to be private, however I will say - whether you believe me or not; my wife is a senior educator and my 3 children went to school and university here. plus my brothers sisters and friends, have children that have been to schools and university.

So we have had many discussions about differences and disparities.

As in everything (written) in The Drum; it's an opinion. Mine.Good teachers are very important.

I should add (for Dialbo's info), that my daughter got 2 degrees here at Griffith (and also did some practical work in The UK for 24 months) and paid here HECS back. She is now the equivalent of an assistant HOD, and Head of English extension - so will be up for HOD shortly....And she loves Australia, despite its frustrations.

As an aside, I watched Julia Zemiro's Home Delivery recently, and she gave Bill Bailey the chance to explain how much he owed his teacher.

Julia is an example of a brilliant Australian girl; she is engaging, articulate, amusing and smart as a whip.

If she has a political preference she doesn't let it show. She's irreverent about tall poppies and battler's alike.

It's a common, modern idiom. And one of which, I am sure Julia, would approve. She's gregarious, witty and a mix of European and Australian. Her mother was a teacher.

In Queensland.And then there are those that think being born means that the world owes them a living. They vote for The ALP.It's the thin end of the wedge. Annexation follows.Yes, The British suffered massive losses.Every comment by an Australian Journalist seems to be about Tony Abooot, and his (and our) position in the World Premier League.

It seems to be a disease.

Leigh Sales kept going off the subject and badgering the CEO of Rio Tinto, with questions about whether Australia was out of step.

It seems far more important to the ABC, to try and paint a negative picture of our government.

Full marks to Sam Walsh, as he studiously pointed out the facts: coal will be important for 50 years, despite Sales, trying to pin the inherited budget deficit on the iron ore price.

Why can't the interviewers interview anymore. They seem stuck in a groove.correct, he made the salient point that Australia should get in step with other countries and regions. My understanding is that Greg Hunt as alluded that we will?

However, my point is that these interviews should steer clear of guiding the conversation in an obviously  biased way. It throws red-herrings into what should be an interview putting the interviewees' points across, not the interviewer.

Something is wrong when one can virtually predict what an ABC journalist is going to say surely. If they can't be impartial, they should take paid employment with a Labor organ or join an anti-Liberal lobbyist group, instead of deceitfully using taxpayer's money to push a clearly loaded agenda.My taste is for healthy discussion, not one sided questions that are loaded with phrases like, 'How hard is', or, 'how much is', or 'Isn't it the case that'. Instead of seeking Mr Walsh's opinion she tried to put questions to him that forced answered that suited her, and The ABC's, anti-liberal stance.

It's bad journalism. And if you can't see it, then I am wasting my time trying to point it out.

I wasn't aware, BTW, that, The Australian had a TV channel, loaded with myopic interviwers.Nice that we agree on Something, Dove.

Perhaps an excursion into Capitocialism, another time? Or, exploring ways to getting bullet-trains rocketing around our dry island? Trains with fast BB, of course.Absolutely Keith, and I hasten to add my endorsement.

I have been flogging this for about 20 years, however to no avail, unfortunately.

But, don't falter, we will keep sending the message. It adds to weight to posts such as 'James in Brisbane', above.

Seeing as it's obvious to anyone with event scant lucidity that Eurasia has no intention of stalling there Carbon outputs, perhaps we should be concentrating on what we actually 'can do', here in Oz.

We could start planning for a higher sea level; and we could start planning for higher food production; and we could cut down on immigration. We could also cut the numbers of Public servant bureaucrats in all 3 layers here and pump the saved money into sustainable public transport, with BB wi-fi.Unfortunately what `they' know,  is extremely limited to parochial political news and committees.It's wonderful to see Abooot, standing up to Putin; something his own countrymen can't do because their one sided apparatus consisting of bully boys and sycophants who simply make dissenters disappear.

Putin, knows that Abooot, is a democratic leader and is supported by The whole of The EU, The USA, Canada, China and Japan, so despite having a raspberry blown in his face Putin will just have to cop it sweet.

I understand that they had words and Abooot, told him bluntly that he felt Russia was the perpetrator of the aircraft shooting.

Good on him.
...........................................

As for Barnett's naive comments about Hockey, that was contradicted by Stephen Anthony of Macroeconomics, someone who's arguments I would take any day over a Labor stooge.

As he said, "Joe Hockey is being responsible'. This was despite Peter Ryan continually trying to set an agenda that Hockey was evil. Ryan sounded stuck in a 1950s groove, with a bit of newly learned , 'gotcha'.

He sounded so out of touch that I was embarrassed for him.

Well spotted, that bean-buyer there.The IS, is attacking our children's minds - and I don't see how we can combat it, other than a full scale war obliterating them, or incarcerating them. So we need a well fed army .

They (IS) will keep growing and grooming.did you boo at the memorial service?Australia is not on any of 'The World's' radar.

You would be hard pressed to walk down the high street in any nation on the world  and find anyone who is interested, or knowledgeable about Australia, and especially its politics.

When I quiz people overseas, they remember, 'The lizard of Oz' for his bad manners (despite not being able to actually name him), and that we export minerals.

They have no idea whether we have parliaments or presidents.

And they couldn't care less, excepting; 'it's sunny isn't it?'. We'd like to visit, or even live there. The people seem to drink all day and have BBQs.looks as if Christopher Pyne has trumped Barrie's KIWIS with The Beef Cattle to China story.

I have to agree it's what governments can do when their not focusing on whether a boat was turned back 2 weeks ago (or 3) or arguing about sending aid to Africa, or whether Bang Bang Suliso, is offended by Abooot's handshake.

It will be ten years before the public get brave enough to vote The Unionists back in...And only when they feel that The Libs have done their job and safeguarded the future.

Of course, it won't take long for them to wreck the economy again, excepting with modern speeds they'll be turfed out double quick.

The young and aspiring will never vote for unionists. They may march with placards when they are students, however pragmatism will set in when they need real jobs.It would be great if we could manufacture, using our iron ore and coal.

It's frustrating that we have to buy it back after Eurasia with their added value.

When I first considered moving here, I had great hopes that Australia could become one of the world's power houses. I have, however, been disappointed with our decline. Our work ethic has concentrated on less hours for more money, and a constant refrain of looking after the poor (which we don't have).

The unions have ruined the economy and it has been compounded by a 'she'll be right' attitude, resulting in a dearth of professional workers and manufacturing.

Our only chance may be to produce food for the 5 billion Eurasian. 

Even then, I guess each tractor would have to be equipped with a stubby holder, to comply with work and safety regulations. Or better still a drone to drop seeds and fertiliser while an official in Canberra adds a team to count the grains."more and more of those crocodiles are starting to take their holidays further south down the coast now."

Especially in The Shadow Cabinet and deputy leadership.One only has to see the same creatures booing at a funeral and blogging in here, to realise their true personalities.

Pearson made a good speech -certainly not exceptional - however good enough.

And, as some did;  to make any kind of ignorant noises at this event is unworthy of any human being.

It's made me realise how totally bereft of normal feelings a large part of the 'so called' left is.It was a State Memorial Service and there are accepted standards of etiquette.

One has to remember that there are family, close and casual acquaintances...Some will have to endure it repeatedly when watching replays.

The memorial for the man was disrespected. There can be no excuses. And it will add to the demise of the left; as it was.

I'm glad that it happened and the typification of Labor supporters, is now cemented in viewers far and wide - the only trouble being that it was probably noted by learned in other lands. A blot really on all of us, even though it was despised by any right (correct) thinking human.Just a point of order here Alpo. Right Wingers don't have conspiracies.

We're pragmatists who look at facts and trends.We are projected to be 60 million in 90 years; a simply idiotic, astronomic integer.

I have to say with great respect to all: you must be sleepwalking through life, if you think that 60 million is a reasonable figure for our vast barren land.I object to - "It seems the only way we can understand the events in the world."

I can't even begin to criticise this silly assertion.

Well, I could but will just have to be content to say, "please please Matthew, take s few years off and study the history of the world. Link that to some travelling and museums of art, science and artefacts.

It's chemistry.I have met Jimmy Page; he was a consummate musician self-effacing and generous.

He would not have plagiarised on purpose. That's my impression.A fairly sensible opinion, excepting that it was Paul Keating who started the viscous badinage that has infected Parliament and interviews. That extends to the adversarial style of the journalists too - who are downright rude, offensive and carry big egos. Always looking for that gotcha moment, with persistent bad mannered questions. They are a blot on the media.

Yes, let's put the blame where it really belongs; Keating's bombastic, spiv-like,  insulting manner.If people are becoming, 'more aware', they must be realising the inevitability of charging a consumption tax. It works well everywhere else, and we need the money to pay out to the strugglers and the unfit.Well, I suppose it will soak up a few more jobs for civil servants and blot up our taxes.

We should start working on a metadata ebola.Turnbull, explained it, however, I am against it.

I suppose it depends on how it is used. One could have seditious literature at home, say for a hobby or harmless research, yet on line one access could be misinterpreted.

It's a grey area, and has the potential to let governments pry and make mistakes. 

Of course the flip side is that it could potentially solve crime and save lives....Expect a few court cases.Please, please, stop breeding.

There that's stopped pollution, AND global warming, all in one fell swoop.

You can now halt deforestation; pouring chemicals into the ocean; syphoning up oil; overfishing; traffic jams; overcrowded, pointless Hajjes; fertilizing vast tracts of land; studying to be doctors and nurses - and applying for jobs as civil servants.

That was easy."Additional funding is needed !"

of course and as the population reaches unbridled expansion, where is it going to come from - since more facilities will be needed - both at home and in other regions.

Unless we start to have meaningful global discussions about population, we will be victims of our own success (in breeding).

We have nonsensical situations where half of the population are clamouring for more from the other half.

I can see the reasoning; in that we need to look after humanity and the needy, but we are taking the piss out of nature.

The leaders of the world need a G20 population meeting: P101.Yes, I learnt that at prep school....And as that has been going on for many years we obviously need to address global growth!

For instance; Australia, a waterless country should be stabilised at around 30 million; Egypt around 40million: the population that it had around 40 years ago.

If you had travelled - or observed and read as much as I have, you would be more able to make an informed comment instead of being downright rude!On The WWW!

Same as yours!Yes, I learnt that at prep school....And as that has been going on for many years we obviously need to address global growth!

For instance; Australia, a waterless country should be stabilised at around 30 million; Egypt around 40million: the population that it had around 40 years ago.

If you had travelled - or observed and read as much as I have, you would be more able to make an informed comment instead of being downright rude!I agreed with Anne.

Egypt, is symptomatic of the world explosion. breeding, breeding, breeding. And when some regions slow down, activists clamour for unmanageable migrant intakes.

What's amazing is that The Nile Delta, that nourished so many, has been degraded, yet is still expected to host millions. 

We need to put something in the water - or conduct sterilisation for a few years. Not gonna happen I suppose, that's far to radical and sensible.

I notice that you were rude too.

it seems an Aussie (poster) trait.One can buy more anywhere these days for the equivalent Australian price.

Mt wife and I stayed in Rome recently, on the way back from The UK. 'Everything', was cheaper than Australia. Completely the reverse of when we came to live here in 1988. (The roads are getting congested here too.)

We could have a nice lifestyle, renting out our home and travelling around Europe.Nothing is free. Somebody pays.Yes, I'm happy to pay more, for improved services and to subsidise the needy. That's what democracy and civilisation is (partly) about.

The trouble is that with an ever increasing population: 60 million predicted in 80-90 years, we are spending vast sums just to sustain more patients.

So were just not keeping pace. It's a losing battle - and very dispiriting for those of us that have worked all our lives to pay tax, that's frittered away.

There's only 10 million of us in Australia. It's become ludicrous. That's why I keep on about the red tape and 3 tiers of civil servants. not service sectors but bureaucrats.

It may sound like a rant, however it's a serious matter. Australia is bogged down. 

Funnily enough it was mentioned on ABC radio today. There has been a survey conducted. I can't remember whether it was Deloittes or KPMG. However the wastage is billions. And its all because the left has abrogated individual responsibility, for what is PC and and triple checking....Jobs for useless bureaucrats. ten people to do what 2 can do. 


Or, it can be ignored?I am an Australian, despite your constant sneering and spiteful remarks: typical of your ilk."leaves me in mental turmoil".

One of the most succinct and accurate observations of 90% of your Party's vociferous supporters.

It's a shame that only about 2% of you (in here anyways), are lucid."If you're in a position to attack the work and conclusions of the oceanographers at Woods Hole, Scripps Institute etc let's hear it."

Hardly any of the posters in here are capable of examining any of the climate change Kaleidoscope. It covers many disciplines and it's just strange that of the many in here that blindly support it, it leads me to the conclusion that  - guess what(?) - they blindly support it!

Now I'm actually one who has studied as much as I can reasonably digest and have come to the conclusion that I believe diligent scientist, when the say the planet is warming. I cannot conceive of a conspiracy and I trust their hard work and honest research.

What no-one has been able to prove is that it is Carbon Monoxide that is warming the planet. I'm still waiting to see the proof.

in the meantime, I see no harm in encouraging green and renewable technology. Plus, I'm anti toxic waste.

The fly in the ointment is Eurasia. They will continue pumping out pollutants no matter what taxes are imposed on the 10 million Ozzie taxpayers. And 'I' don't believe them when they say they are reducing pollution.

It's not hard to work out really. One doesn't need to be an intellectual.Addendum: CO2I am not sure that I get your drift.

Are you saying that it has been proved by your friend and he hasn't
shown the world?

With information like that he should table it with all of the other theories and coincidences.Shades of The ALP: a flock.The Sates should be abolished. There are three tiers of government; meaning duplication and red tape at every level, not to mention the fact that there are paradoxical strategies ever present, combined with secrecy and pollution (instead of pollination).

All of this supported by about 10 million (actual) taxpayers.

The Australian left must be the most un-progressive, intellectually bereft organisation on the planet.
...Proof of which is the debt sore; the NBN debacle; the migrant swamp, and every unfunded promise that was ever made.

What's the point of having thought bubbles (both sides have them), if the revenue is never addressed.I wasn't  living in Australia, when he was in-charge. Every casual acquaintance that I have spoken to says he was incompetent.

Just an intelligent, however, misguided man it seems.Surely the lesson has been learned. The CT stopped the world heating - so all we need now is an 'Ebola Tax'?

The left have so much to teach us.I have been teetotal for a while, however seem to remember solving the world's problems and having empathy (or hatred), for everything on the planet, while drinking. The more I drank, the clever I got.

I guess at some stage in our evolution women won't need men.House go down in value and land goes up.

It's always been that way, excepting for historically valuable buildings.Well, I am not going to dignify that with any Googled stats.

To try and intimate that the price of a housing block was the same in 1890, as it was in the fifties of last century is ludicrous.The lack of privacy is worrying.

The lesson is, never put anything on The WWW, that you wouldn't print in a newspaper.Just a small salient point here. The corporations are employers. Any contribution benefits them. I know that has never occurred to anyone who sleep walks through life, and blogs in here. The level of ignorance it quite astounding.

Do the right thing and just resign from your job - if you feel that you're contributing to the economy and taxpayers, in a way that you don't approve of."ensures our economic well-being"

How are they gonna do that Alp?

You'll get my vote if you can explain.

Persuade me.Education is free?

It only costs more if one goes on to become one such as yourself - a well paid biologist. And even then you're only returning some taxpayer's money - which should fit in well with your stated ethos.

The starting point of any income (revenue) is creating it. In other words it has to be imported. And to import it, one has to swap it for something that one has, and that somebody else wants; be it technology, beef, or coal.

Once the revenue comes in, it can be distributed.

The other way is The Labor way ( from my observation); distribute it first (and make hollow promises about getting more) - then just borrow to fulfil those ideals. Eventually it gets out of hand, however when everybody keeps clamouring for more, they are stuck in a downward vortex.

I often think that you misunderstand me. I don't want to cut services to the needy, afflicted, and their back up (hospitals, police ect) or the scientists. I want to increase it!

Unfortunately where we conflict is that I believe the revenue stream has to be provided, nurtured and encouraged. Your (side) believe that pinching a few dollars off captains of industry and the higher paid provide the revenue. it doesn't it diminishes it; cuts incentive and puts monkeys in charge.

Your side often makes the point that so-and-so lives well because he/she earns $180,000 pa. Can't you see that the ideal situation is to increase employers capacity (especially exporters), so that the needy can reap the benefits of the extra tax - not try to carve the pie up into small pieces. make a bigger pie.

Work hard to export - that's where the money comes from. tickling up a few canneries, bank rolling out of date car plants(and their huge wage bills) , or employing thousands of imbeciles to run red tape, just blots up the dollars that could go to services. 

I believe that I am a capitosocialist.

Labor can never play any part in increasing revenue. Their job is to share things out. And that's good. however we already have those department in Liberal Governments. it may not seem like that, when the legacy has to be rectified after a Labor rule, because there has to be medicine to cure the ailments.

Keep persuading me. I will listen.


 






I don't intend to criticise him. I didn't live here when he was your leader - so my knowledge is gleaned from history and conversation.

I have lived here for 26 years and the period of most stability was during Howard's years.

That's a fact from my observation.Sometimes the deeds and efforts are overtaken by the wrong element.

The Tolpuddle Martyrs, did a marvellous job as a forerunner to the unions, but who would have thought that it would be hijacked by selfish spendthrifts and rabble rousers that have slowed production and ruined Australian Industry?

Let's hope that The Chinese Sovereigns can absorb some lessons and meet halfway, with some improved democratic resolutions.

I am not hopeful though.It was a great comment. That's why it hits home.

Shorten and Wong (who bitched about it), have both said incredibly derogatory things about most members of The Coalition.

I'm pretty sure that the moderators would censor my post if I listed their putrid verbiage.

Grow up and answer him!

What is Bill's solution? ....Zilch. The ALP got us in, but couldn't get us out in.

How could they ? What could they do?I thought it a reasonable comment; clearly designed to appeal in the Aussie vernacular, to resonate in the very heart of the the antipodean proletariat.

It was clear and unambiguous. And so true.Keep what money. Every viable business has been driven off shore by The Gourmet (guzzling) Unions.

I suppose it slipped their mind that the greedy bosses - who have all gone bung - needed money to tool up and run their businesses. they thought that every penny that came in had to be shared around and splurged on "The Great Australian Lifestyle".

It's all gone. Cooked.It's been a double decade process.

But look, if you want to find the fault elsewhere, keep doing what you're doing. it usually gets the same results.A worker should be paid what he/she is worth.

There that wasn't hard.The only cash available comes from the free market. That's what pays for the lot: every tier and every teaspoonful of dessicated, anything.

Every Xray; every hospital; every civil service bureaucrat; every language teacher; every road-marking foreman; every journalist ( even The ABC), and all infrastructure, relies on income from the private sector.

There is no other source - unless one has PPPs, like some countries.

It's so simple really, it doesn't need a genius  - or even an author with a room temperature IQ, to work it out.

Look after The employers - 'especially exporters', and the rest follows.
Of course there has to be a balance. That's what laws and tax reforms are for.

I wonder how many millions Warren Buffet's activities feed. Indirectly of course through wages and use of myriad services.A good sensible article.

We should have more sensible opinion pieces like this.

Abbott used the wrong language, but Putin does too - when it suits him. He's probably note really aware of much about Australia, as we don't do much internationally, apart from some military s
assistance, here and there.

Russia probably has the same awareness of Australia, as Australia does of Trinidad.The Australian population will be 60 million in 90 years time.

Of course we could expand on that by taking in more migrants now...If we think that's sensible?

I can't remember the percentage of arable land; 6% I think. Of course we can always import more food for the new migrants, and maybe we can find some work. Some work that the already unemployed cant do?Full marks for your accurate candour.

Of course you won't get any marks from Australian Liberal haters ( Unionists and Greens). Most are besotted with hatred and can't think laterally. Its a tribal thing.

What's amazing (to me at any rate) is that just like science - where one looks at results and experiments - the last six years, of the most dysfunctional government in The western world, haven't taught The ALP supporters anything.

They are like lemmings.

You seem oblivious to the fact that she was useless - as was Rudd."we are warming the planet at a faster rate than at any time in history and it will be to our detriment."

Well, I guess if we are warming it, then we would be doing it faster, because there are more people being produced every day.

Actually we only need a thermometer, to gauge the temperature...Unfortunately that doesn't tell us why the planet is warming.

You could be very helpful here and tell us why.

I'm not hopeful though, because you seem to think that everyone other then you is "pig ignorant".

I am sure that other writers in this forum, including myself can advance theories about AGW, however, can you?

There is no cure apparently, so I don't know what can be done.

Maybe the same as the great plagues that swept the planet despatching some 200 million; including 1000 in Australia...Isolation?

It's amazing to think how many people died, in the several occurrences of The Plague. Yet there's still too many of us.

It still pops up but we can treat it now if we get it early.

If the world wasn't so highly populated, it would be easier to treat people.

And..."* People have always gotten sick. This is nothing more than a natural progression of an already-established cycle. There were sick people during the Little Ice Age you know." out of the mouths of babes.
Values are great, once one has earned the money to implement them.Good point Craig.

In fact if any one is entitled to expressing grievance in the form of violence, it should be the disenfranchised Aboriginals of Australia!

But of course they don't, because they haven't been groomed into the nonsense that underpins Islam and Christianity.

Past Christian faiths have committed terrible atrocities, however, the populace was largely ignorant and followed a few crafty leaders. What did The Spanish Conquests have to do with religion? Nothing really of course, it was acquisition and murder.

There is no soft method of dealing with The Pretend caliphate. We need troops on the ground and their organisation needs to be destroyed.

It just the way our chemistry works. Keep giving in and they will keep taking. Children do it too."Abbott wants is to crush workers' wages and conditions"

What unfounded loony statement.

And as regards your opening statement, I seem to recall that toward the end of the first part (tenure) of The ALP debacle, we were wishing the ground would open up and swallow us. This was then compounded by the foolish Windsor/Oakshott Cobbletion, who's legacy were still paying for.

For your information, although I know that I'm wasting my time (telling you), let me tell you that all employers want happy well paid workers. There has to be a balance.We, along with other developed nations, have the ability to stoop/slow this massive onslaught of the p[pretenders to Islam.

We have no alternative - since we (both sides) advocate truth and justice.

That's our goal: universal democracy and accountability.

It's quite incredible how selfish people are if it's not their immediate family that are threatened.

Of  course The IS, threatens the world, and has told us so.You're ill informed. It's fairly traditional. Most PMs have made huge faux pas at Sports occasions, including Keating (the lizard of oz).

And...while I've got your attention, let me just say that The ALP, will be in the wilderness for ten looooong years.

Get used to it.10 years Alpo, ten years.

That's how long it will be before any union backed party gets a look in.Are you suggesting that she should abandon her core values?

The attack on Iraq, because of the perceived threat, was nothing to do with left or right, as of course the other 40 leaders of the coalition would attest.

Bishop is an admirable women. Especially given the ocker attitude of the average Australian. She is quite at home on The International stage. And follows many a brilliant woman, internationally, where there is more acceptance of female achievers.The central tenet of this article follows the author's worn out  meme, with a confected story followed by a fictitious analysis, aimed at  the usual sawdust heads.

Must be hard up for material at The ABC, to put something up attacking one our most able Australians - who's doing a sterling job.

Sad really.What lie? That's the first I've heard that one?

Explanation with detail please Rob.It's about time that the encouragers realise that we are full up.

The projected population in about 90 years is 60 million.

Only the ignorant would keep trying to lay the groundwork for a higher figure by agitating for more immigrants.

It's worrying that some of the citizens of the world seem oblivious to what's happening.Yes, John Ward, however, now we are full up.

Get it?Looks as if the experiment has run its race.

Back to violence for The Chinese dictatorship.

It was never gonna work; states owning businesses and pretending to have a free economy, all manipulated by Putin-like figures from behind The Wizard of Oz's curtain.

China the great. China the model. China leads the way in AGW ideas. China is fair. China will be the worlds greatest economy.

Possibly, when they have a rule of law system, such as The West has had for many a year.

Once individuals taste freedom, they want keep it - excepting those who are propped up by the state - such as the 3 tiers of Public Servants in Australia. Their cloistered lives have deluded them into thinking that they can sit back and carp about real employers who produce what they consume, with their pseudo-academic-pseudo-inheritances; pensions and super.Property: it's all cheap, when you have 7 billion squabbling over it.

Sterilisation is the only way to cool production and prices.Foreigners are supposed to apply here, and comply with certain requirements, to buy.

My comment was in fact a sort of sarcasm; in that there is so many people,  that owning a piece of the earth is a good investment - that can only became dearer over time.

The best bits will continue to command eye watering prices - unfortunately.

My first house ( in North London) cost seven thousand pounds. So they don't get cheaper.

Eventually they reach a plateau; then a correction; then a pick up, before another plateau and then a bull market, where humans go crazy.

Sell when people are greedy and buy when the market has collapsed.

Of course, in Australia, it seems more of a business, whereas in Europe it is more about having a nice family environment for a while (a roof) regardless of ups and downs.Alpo, you should get a job as a joke writer.

'Labor returning to government in 2016'. Tommy Cooper would be proud.

I haven't told you today, however it will be 10 years before Labor get a look in...And they will have to change dramatically, to even be considered.Given enough time, I could probably come up with a Prime Minister that was as bad as Gillard, although I would need a week to dwell on it and do some research.What a waste of time and money. It's not as if Newman, has electrocuted anyone.

Or is there something that I don't know about?

Palmer, seems to be pursuing a personal grudge with my (taxpayer) money.

Still, I suppose it is adding more antipathy to his Bunteresque image.Well, I don't know anyone else who expresses that feeling. We (Queenslanders ) dislike him, however, think that The Liberals have turned this state around.

The Fairfax press has pushed the lame Opposition leader relentlessly, to no avail, despite The Fairfax press. She's still a very, very average politician.

We had 20 years of cheating and lies under Beattie and Bligh.
Qld will stay Liberal, mate.The SBS, is less parochial and has a broader (and more international) impartial view, plus it's programmes are far superior.

The ABC has a narrow biased view and is blatantly hostile to The Coalition, whether it is governing or in Opposition.

I'm absolutely flabbergasted that some write, that they cannot see it.Presently, The ABC, is tantamount to a fifth column.Having had relatives that are religious, I can see how it affects lives.

What I have never understood - from about the age of 12 - is why can't people see that it is so obviously contrived. One only has to look at all of the variances, and the fact that, mistakenly, sections of the community think that they could be correct and the others wrong, to see that it (relgion) is farcical.

As Bertrand Russel wrote: Religion is based, I think, primarily and mainly upon fear. It is partly the terror of the unknown and partly, as I have said, the wish to feel that you have a kind of elder brother who will stand by you in all your troubles and disputes....A good world needs knowledge, kindliness, and courage; it does not need a regretful hankering after the past or a fettering of the free intelligence by the words uttered long ago by ignorant men.Firstly, we had our best and fairest at The Climate Change Summit: Julie Bishop.

Secondly, it is paradoxical to keep propagating (and nurturing) our species to such a rigorous extent while other species are rapidly declining, together with resources.

Perhaps it's time we looked at sterilisation.When will we wake up to the fact that we're full up?The world is full up.

We just don't acknowledge it. There are many things that we don't acknowledge.

It's rather like Climate Change: some thing that it will be abated if a few of the regions levy another tax to get around, instead of taking action that will mitigate any physical ecological effects.
