'zilch credibility, preferring cheaply opposing everything rather than renewal or national interest'

Perfect summation of Abbott's opposition. The LNP could have returned to the 'norms' of effective Government, but not with PM Abbott who is a dud. And yes Labor still have a world of problems too.

Surely you cannot be so one-eyed not to see loads of people are completely fed up with the major Parties. That's why we are where we are at.Read a sci-fi book once where everyone's CV was in a big computer and every few years it would pick a panel of suitably qualified people, put them through a barrage of tests, and whittle them down to a few to run the place on behalf of everyone else.

One of the tests to pass was that you did not actually want the job in the first place, but saw it as more of a civic responsibility.

Made sense to me !.yes they were. You are free to criticise their policies and politcs all you like, but they did function, which is an entirely different thing.And, as always, no solutions. The 'boat people' (not refugee) lobby can be summed up as:

'Anyone who gets here by boat should be let into Australia, basically on their word. How ever many have the money and means to make the boat trip we should take. All the other refugees languishing in camps around the world don't matter. And if they drown getting here, too bad. Then we will be a compassionate nation'.

I agree. Whether people like gbe, and the equivalent from the other 'team' truly see the world this way, or just enjoy a bit of trolling I don't know. I think it must be the latter, but I could be wrong.

It puzzles me how anyone, or at least anyone who hasn't been brainwashed from birth, could see everything in such simplistic terms.If Abbott wins a second term - fine, that's our democracy in action. And as I keep pointing out, while I don't particularly like him, I don't think he will 'destroy the joint' either, so why should I be upset ?. In fact I agree with some of his policies - stop the boats, don't spend so much, reduce welfare dependence. Other things I disagree with, so am I a 'leftie' or a 'rightie' ?.True. But the same applies in reverse. Many who complained about the previous Labor Government also would have complained no matter what they had done.

As the old saying goes - there are two types of people, those who see the world as black/white, and those who don't !. Personally in Australia most of us have more in common than what divides us, and thank goodness for that.

Abbott/Gillard/Hockey/Rudd, whoever, none of them are the devil incarnate who will destroy the country.That's the point. For all their faults, the country is OK. Sure we have some problems but to spread endless 'doom and gloom' is hyperbole.

I hold both major Parties (and Greens) with disdain, but neither of them are as bad as the 'rusted on's' of both sides make out.I find this a strange argument. a Unions job is to get a good deal for it's members, not run the company. If they are demanding ridiculous wages surely it's up to the Management of the company to say no, isn't that their job ?. Or do they not care as they'll leave in a couple of years with a big bonus regardless ?.

I'm no fan of modern Unions by the way.But the carbon tax is gone so everyone will have a job soon. Yay !.My partner worked for many years in a blokey trade with lots of 'average Aussie blokes'. We'd go to the annual BBQ and after quite a few beers the conversation sometimes turned to 'those bloody Indians are taking over the country, those bloody Muslims are terrorists' and so on. But there was always an 'except you Mos, or except you Raj'. So were these guys 'racist' or just dumb ?.

The thing was they worked with Muslims and Indians etc and thought they were all top blokes. Now I am not saying this is OK in anyway, but there are degrees of everything. Yes, we can do better, yes it would be a much better country (and world) if all this stuff stopped. Yes 'Mo' and 'Raj' shouldn't have had to put up with the 'jokes'. I agree with all that.

But sometimes I think it would be nice to acknowledge that by and large Australia is a pretty tolerant country and we all get along pretty well. I work in a shop with people from many cultures, races, religion, and ages and we all get on really well, respect each others differences, and enjoy learning about each other. Never, ever had a problem. We give so much attention to the bad stuff, and seem to completely ignore the good stuff. Though that's 'news' I guess.so slagging Abbott is bad, but slagging anyone who disagress with him is good - now I get it !But what if they choose to be containers ?. What if they choose to sell their half-biological child ?. What if they decide getting alot of money for being a surrogate is a better choice than working in a sweat shop for years for a pittance ?. I don't think there are any easy answers.Yes, in an ideal world there wouldn't be wage slavery. But there is and will be for a long while yet I reckon. By removing the choice you are dictating to these women. Maybe it's the lesser of two evils for them. Like I said, I don't think it is clear cut.The murkiness of surrogacy aside, another thing struck me about this. Since little Gammys plight became news, loads of money has been raised to secure his medical teatments and future. If he had been the surrogates mothers natural born son we would never have heard about it. Why is he more deserving of help than all the other disadvantaged babies around the world ?.

My 'gut feeling' is to agree with you. But, it's not as simple as that. Imagine if this hadn't gone pear shaped. The biological parents were 'good' people, the surrogate Mum had one perfect baby and got paid. So the kid gets brought up to a good life in Australia, and the surrogate Mum gets (to her) a fortune which improves her own life and that of her family. Is that not a win/win ?

Personally I agree that this 'must have at any cost' approach to having a baby selfish and greedy, not to mention stupid. People who can't have a fulfilling life without passing on their genes need a shrink, not a surrogate in my view. But should my opinion become the law ?. 

I think it falls more in the 'not my business' category.'If your opinion is aligned with those of a majority of other Australians, why ever not?'

Because, as I said I broadly believe in the 'it's not my business' test. I generally believe people should be free to do waht they like, if it doesn't directly anyone else. So legalise drugs, gay marraige, euthanasia, etc. Democracy can simple be majority rule, or it can be the most freedom for everyone.

I am an atheist and believe society would be overall better off without religion, but even if a majority agreed with me I would not agree it should be made illegal. Generally, laws shouldn't be based on personal opinons and beliefs.A bit harsh perhaps, each to their own I say. My parents were the 'tell the truth' types. I don't think I ever beleived in Father Christmas or any of that stuff. I do remember truthful discussions about the state of the world, history, politics,  the past, etc at the dining table from as long as I can remember. Most would go over the head, then it would start sinking in bit, by bit. Then I'd start joining in too.

I had discussions about whether we'd (as in the world) die in a nuclear WW3 when I was very young. Too young to be scared in fact, just curious and interested - the 'best' answer Mum and Dad gave me was probably not. They both grew up in the Blitz where shielding kids from the realities of life was not an option, maybe that effected the way they parented.

But, I can't say it did me any harm, and I can't  remember them ever lying to me, not even by avoiding question etc, ever. In fact I think it gave me an enquiring, open mind.It's an interesting. My partner watches the occasional downloaded movie, which I assume is illegal. But, he'd never pay to watch them either at home or at the cinema, so is it 'stealing', as what has been 'taken' ?. Technically yes I guess, but more akin to photocopying a library book as oppsed to stealing a book from a bookshop maybe.

While we're at it, is taping a free to air show then fast forwarding through the ads stealing ?. As a kid I remember taping songs off the radio, not sure if that was illegal. Seems this has been going on a long time and everyone has survived.Good analogy. Seems like we need some new words !.I don't think modern Germans should feel guilty for WW1 or WW2, the leaders of all the European nations share the blame for WW1, not only for what started it, but that they didn't end it, far, far sooner. And without WW1, the Treaty of Versailles, and the Great Deprssion, maybe Hitler wouldn't have gained power - who knows ?.

Regardless no-one should feel guilt because of things done by their ancestors, or past members of their race, or their nation. No-one should hate someone else for the same reason, these things are what make conflicts never end.

My grandfather, and grandfather-in-law were both killed by Germans in WW2, but unless they are a Nazi (which is not an inherited condition) no German should feel gulity about that. Remember yes, guilt no. Just as all humans should do about the sins of the past, of which there are many.



Sorry I don't get your point. If a person wants to kill Jews then judge them, but don't judge the children or granchildren of Nazis when they themselves have done no wrong.Yes it was stupid. Learning from stupidity, whether you're an individual, or the entire human race, would seem more prudent than just forgetting the stupid things you have done.True, to a point. We have a long, long way to go. But, you don't get thousands of young men yearning to go off to 'do their bit' in Iraq etc, as they did in WW1. Not thier 'fault' mind you, different times and all that.Well if it's 'just' dress ups put all the girls in a room, with all the dresses and make-up and fake tan spray and fake teeth etc, and let them dress up !. Of course it's not dress ups.

I agree though it's not a class thing, alot of these parents spend oodles of money on all that rubbish, not working class at all, more cashed up bogan.

Still, if mothers want to dress up their babies to look like little blow up dolls that's their business. It only gets so much publicity as it's one of those things so mind-bogglingly stupid it's hard to look away, hence all the PR.

It's not just dress-ups, it's not child abuse either. Bit it would be interesting to know what the little darlings are like when they grow up though. I'd hope they rebel as teenagers and become goths or something !.I don't like it either. I also don't like kids being brainwashed into believeing in an maginary man up in the sky who decides what is 'right' and 'wrong', and who will send you to eternal torment if you don't worship him.

But we can't ban everything we don't like. Hopefully, like religion, one day people will grow up enough that it will go away of it's own accord.

Yes.Yep, tax the rich to pay for welfare for everyone, what a brilliant policy from a LNP Government !. Next thing you know, they'll be putting up the dole.But what is your solution ?. Sounds simple, let then come to the mainland and give them all the support they need. Which will surely encourage more people risking thier lives, and their childrens lives on boats. And the numbers will go up and up and up. And some will probably drown.

I don't have a solution, do you ?.I don't have kids, why should some of my taxes go to schools ?.For what it's worth I'd say we do, as long as it's consistent. Not every Australian supports 'Operation Soverign Borders'. If people criticise their own Government then they can also criticise others.

'The creation of homosexual marriages will utterly destroy marriage in our society'

How exactly ?. Specifics please.

And sorry to let you know but marraige, as you see it,  is already destroyed. No fault divorce, the removal of shame for 'living in sin', and so on have already done that. Marriage is now an excuse for a big party where two people say 'we love each other - for now'. Letting a few gay people do the same won't change a thing.

If you think the destruction of 'traditional' marraige will destroy society - fine. Start lobbying to ban no fault divorce as the first step. I doubt you'll get much support from lefties or righties. Society isn't destroyed, just changed. 

why ?. What will happen ?

This truly puzzles me. If you have a gay couple living in your street now, and next year (or whenever) they get a marriage certificate, what has changed ?. In reality, unless you were friends, you wouldn't even know that they were married would you ?.You must have been suprised when Abbott won, you know all those dodgy polls predicted it.. If the polls were against gay marriage you'd say  - 'listen to the people, the people have spoken'. Because the polls don't agree with you, you choose not to believe them. Quite desperate 'logic'.My post was in response to people who don't believe the polls because they don't agree with them.'And children will be the main beneficiaries.'

Yep, so when Daddy beats Mummy (or vice versa) and 'society' frowns on single parents they stay together - great for kids.

You want to return to the 'good old days', fair enough, but I take today thanks. In an ideal world it would be easy - everyone a good parent etc, lifes not like that.

always the same old arguments. Your pick - marriage has been around for thousands of years and just for men and women.

Fine. Lets not nit-pick and agree with the broad statement. My response is, so what ?. Slavery has been around for thousands of years, democracy (where everyone can vote) is basically brand new, secular societies are new, the very notion of human rights is new, and so on. We don't keep traditions just because they are old, societies evolve.

At the end of the day 'marriage' is just a word, a collection of letters whose meaning can change to whatever a society decides. The argument that gay people are equal in every way to the rest of us, can have all the same right and priveleges but not use the 'm' word, is just not logical.

Your statement that marriage has a biological foundation is not correct, it is a contract between two people, that's it, absolutely nothing to do with children. Sure, most married couple have children, most buy a house together too, that doesn't mean buying a house is a requirement for marriage !.
They are only words, and I am talking about how the meaning of words can change. Take 'racism' it can now apply to religious discrimination, which is not a race. Whether a word is 'good' or 'bad' is not my point. Just that the notion that a word is set in stone and it's meaning never be changed is a nonsense argument, and by itslef, no justification for not allowing gay people to marry.I won't attack you, but I wish the two issues weren't mixed up together. Gay couples right now are having children by various means, that's not going to change. Find a number of gay couples who say 'we'd like to have children but we won't because we can't get legally married in Australia', and you might have a case. But I doubt you will.

The survey 'employed random telephone polling adhering to market research industry standards and practices.'

You may want to check what 'random' means. Here's a clue, your poll would not be 'random'. Regardless, all the poll are similar. If you don't believe multiple polls you must have had one heck of a suprise when Abbott won.'I would never vote for person who represents such poor politics and stands for nothing but drama and blame.'

So you didn't vote for Abbott then ?. Really change 'Andrews' to Abbott and 'Napthine' to Gillard when he was Opp Leader and she was PM, and your post would work just as well. I don't like Andrews either, but all the pollies from the major Parties are all the same. They are the perfect 'good' guys, the other team are the terrible 'bad' guys, when in reality they are all self-serving hypocrites.I thought my point was fairly clear. All pollies from major Parties, State or Federal play the same game. As James (above) says Shorten is doing the same as well.

I don't think everything is Abbott's fault anymore than I think 'everything' was Gillard/Rudd's fault. We are being let down by ALL of our politicians, only those welded on to one 'team' can't see it. As for mentionig him, well he is running the country at the moment.

Is one side 'worse' than the other ?. I'm not sure, maybe one side would be 30/100 and the other 29/100, in other words both crap, with the difference so small as to be irrelevant !.Don't know what you mean. I didn't say 'oh well', I think the poor state of our politics at the moment is a disgrace, and a serious issue.the same would happen if the other mob were in charge. For some, if the other team does something, anything it is automatically wrong. This should not be a suprise.For arguments sake, let's say you are correct about 'no-one giving a stuff', that doesn't change the fact that what he did was wrong.

An 'honourable man' would have admitted his mistakes, resigned, and maybe come back in a few years. Instead he took a fully paid holiday while whinging about how hard done by he'd been.Actually it's 40 a month, so about 10 a week. In principle I don't have a problem with work for the dole. But I see no point in making people apply for jobs that they have no hope of getting - maybe you can tell me.

I recently was looking for more work. I have expereince in retail, hospitality, and admin, fairly wide-ranging stuff. I was applying for about five jobs a week that I believed I might get. I guess there must be a number, but 40 seems unrealistic.Employment Minister Eric Abetz has admitted there is a risk of "box-ticking" if jobseekers are forced to apply for 40 jobs a month to claim welfare.

Another new obligation is that people receiving Newstart will have to apply for around 10 jobs a week or 40 a monthI became an unemployed a few years ago and started doing volunteer work of my own accord, and it most definately did help me get back into paid work.I love my ABC, I watch it, read it, and listen to it, mainly because the commercial media is full of rubbish. But this never-ending flow of opinion pieces about boat people is ridiculous. It (rightly) leave the ABC open to criticism of bias as all the pieces are relentlessly one-sided.

And what is the point ?. To change people's minds ?. To make them feel gulity ?. Fine, but on a subject that has many sides and complexities the one-sided theme of all these pieces is embaressing. Even the most strident refugee advocate should acknowledge that alot of people agree with the policies of the Government (and Opposition) so why not something reflecting that point of view ?.

Must admit it baffles me.Of course they are taking sides. If they published article after article supporting 'stopping the boats' I'd bet you'd think that was taking sides. Should we stay in the refugee Convention is a valid question, as are many others.

Their is 'another side' to the debate, just because you don;t want to hear it doesn't mean it doesn't exist. Like 'It is necessary to stop the boats to ensure we can take in refugees from camps around the world. The only way to do this is to have harsh policies and ensure no-one who arrives in boat can settle in Australia'. You can disagree with this, fine, but it is another point of view.The choose to play, as long as they are aware of the risks it's their business I reckon. Many things that can damage are health are legal, smoking and drinking for starters.Hows that one eye going ?. The reality is nobody, but nobody hates like a hater. They are on both sides of politics, 'hating' is not owned by the left. Your statement 'there will always be ...... against Abbott' equally applies to Gillard or Rudd or Shorten.

I would be broadly an economic conservative, and a social liberal. The Greens are too left economically for me, and too idealistic with some social policy. Labor just can't manage money or themselves, and are too beholden to Unions. But the Libs are just Conservatives and beholden to big business, and I would never vote for Conservatives.

For me, there is no one to vote for.But 'the age of entitlement' is supposedly over. Taxing big business to give out welfare is what it is. The Greens support it !. It's a lefty idea which shows another problem of the Government - inconsistency.I find none of this suprising. Abbott are team are not good at politics and they never were. It was just that Labor were so bad they had a free ride.

Feel free to name your theory but the politicians have stoped listening. Labor with (initially) their 'soft' stance on boat people, the carbon tax etc. Now the Libs with their budget and 'attack' on the poor, the PPL etc. Add to that they have both been terrible at picking leaders, and when they get in power seem to make a never ending series of stupid gaffes. 

They are two sides of the same really stupid coin. I wish I knew why they are both so bad.No what we have learnt is that Hockey is a dumb politician. Politics and policy are different thing. He is meant to sell his message to everyone, not just rusted-ons. Instead of doing it in a sensible way he made a really stupid comment that anyone with half a brain would have known would be jumped on.

What's an 'election denier' ?.It increasingly seems to me that Hockey is of the mindset that if you try hard enough you can have a perfectly good life, with a good job and income, without any help from the Government. This would be in no small part from his own background. It's not a bad thing, or wrong thing, to believe, but it's not always true. Neither is the reverse, that if you are poor it must be your own fault, and therefore why should good hard working tax-payers have to pay for your stipidity ?.

I think 'most' Aussies do have a strong dislike of dole bludgers, welfare cheats, job snobs etc. But to lump everyone who is 'poor' into these category is just wrong and overly simplistic, but that's what he seems to think. And if he doesn't think that he's not doing a very poor job of explaining himself.You are correct. 'What is fair ?', is largely subjective. In some ways 'What is not fair ?' is easier. Usually people see extremes as unfair. So I think most would say your physicist and garbo being paid the same would be unfair. And equally, your physicist getting billions, and the garbo living in his car would be unfair.

Whether it's true or not, Hockeys budget is seen by many as 'unfair' as it seems to ask the poor to do more of his 'heavy lifting'. His cigar smoking, and petrol faux pas aren't helping. Politics, rightly or wrongly, is about perception as much as fact. Like Labor, this lot are very bad at selling their message.'an economic conservative and a social liberal'

Me too, who in the hell have we got to vote for !.Don't blame the media. He's a well paid politician who should know how to do his job - sell the Governments messages. Even if factually correct, that's not the point It was a really, really stupid and unnecessary thing to say. As the article says he could have made his point in a much better way.

Politics and policy are two different things. It seems, much like Labor, this Government is hopeless at politics. 

'I just take objection to people putting words in his mouth and creating a strawman'

It goes with the territory, doesn't matter what side of politics you're on. A smart pollie would have known it was a stupid thing to say.Speeding fines are meant to change behaviour, teach you a lesson so you don't do it again. So making these a proportion of income, not a flat fee, is quite sensible, though probably impractical to administer.The point is, they should have picked Albanese in the first place. Instead Shorten won because of their internal shenanigans, which is one of Labor's biggest problems.

Mind you, the Libs can't claim the high ground, as Turnbull is more popular than Abbott.'Worried about the Oil?'

I often wonder, if all the money (trillions of billions ?), and man-power, and energy, etc, that's been used getting the oil from the Middle East over the past decades, had been used to find a way to cope without fossil fuel, where would we be now ?.I agree, though I don't think will happen for maybe thousands of years, if ever. Also, many bring up Hitler, Stalin, Pol Pot etc, as example of non-religious genocide, but I don't think so.

They have much in common. Blind faith in the leader, who is infalliable, who is judge, jury and executioner, who is superior to 'normal' people, who is to be worshipped and adored, and followed without question, who can never be replaced, etc. These tyrants didn't get rid of religion, they just made themselves the god.

But we don't need to evolve beyond the belief of super men in the sky (or on the ground). We just need to learn the basic concept of not imposing your beliefs on others. Much easier said than done obviously.No big system is perfect, it's impossible. I agree most Australians despite 'dole bludgers', but how many are there ?. That's the key question, how many people rort the system, have no desire to find work, and are more than happy to live off the dole forever ?.

I don't think it would be that many. And I'd rather have a system that has a few 'dole bludgers' rather than one in which thousands of people who are genuinely looking for work are 'punished'. I have no problem with work for the dole (dependent on how it's structured) by the way, so would rather not be written off as a 'beeding heart leftie' !.
There are too many people in the world. Thousands of children every day die of starvation, preventable diseases and so on. They suffer horribly. Until we have managed to work out how to live with a sustainable population, and not wreck the planet, while ensuring all children born are being fed, cared for and educated, aborted 'babies' are really a non-problem.'an individual cannot permanently surrender this right to another individual or to the State, even if they wish to'

Says you, other would disagree would they not ?.  And why not ?. Where is this 'law' that cannot be challenged or changed ?.

If I know I will lose my faculties, and I give my partner permission to make decisions on my behalf, and one of those decision was when to finish me off, and the law of the day allowed it, then that is what would happen.

Whatever laws we have can be changed if that is what  society wants, your statement is meaningless.This debate can get murky indeed, and is not simple in all cases, but in some cases it is. We have euthanasia already, right here, right now and it's legal. Patients in palliative care wards, with no hope of treatment and facing imminent death, are drugged to the point of unconsciousness, no fluid is given and after some days they die of dehydration. This happened to my mother, who was in her late seventies and riddled with cancer, and has happened to many others.

My mother still sometimes cried out, and did not seem at all in 'peace'. Her mouth became dry and cracked, all we could do was swab it with cotton buds. She lingered for days and for no purpose. She had refused treatment when still coherent and had accepted it was her time to die, and if given the choice, would have done so at home surrounded by framily and her pets.

How anyone can argue, in cases such as these, a needle wouldn't be a better option is beyond me.There is a huge difference between teaching a child "Christians believe Jesus was the Son of God" and "Jesus was the Son of God".

As other point out, the former is fine, and even necessary. The latter has it's place in a Church, not a school.I thought my point was clear. Of course you can say 'I believe', in a Church, Sunday School, and so on. But in a State funded school system, no.Yes, the Greens were, and are, completely stupid. Abbott is PM in large part thanks to them. And I used to vote for them.I'm a woman and consider myself a feminist (it's a broad church). I agree with EP in that we are not 'delicate flowers'. The aim of feminism should be to 'make' strong, confident, mature, healthy women. 

I don't want a society where everyone (men included) is treated like fragile sensitive souls to the point where we ban eveyting spoken and written that is offensive. 

The slogans are stupid, crass, smutty and silly. They should not be taken seriously and giving them all this attention instills them with a power they do not deserve.Yep, no problems with that. 
I expect it would be a similar response. Some people thinking it's funny, most don't care, and some would be offended. And, as with most things, those who get offended are the ones who speak up.

I'm a woman and found that ad funny. Why would a MAN steer well clear of any reference to sanitray products ?. They are just bits of tissue and plastic . I find the notion that anything to do with periods being 'taboo' rather childish.I agree to a point. But women have made great strides in recent decades. I'd say power imbalances in our society are far more based on socio-economic factors than gender ones these days. Millions of women are well educated, finacially independent, and so on.

Therefore I would like to get rid of the notion that you can't call women 'dumb' because of a power imbalance, it perpetuates the notion that women are still the 'weaker' sex and need of protection, that, as in your other example, men are like parents, women are like children.

Sure, men still do hold most positions of power, but this is changing, and I feel women are strong enough to hold their own against silly, stupid 'jokes'.What suprises me about Snowden, Assange etc is that nothing they released should come as the slightest suprise to anyone. The NYT may say Snowden 'has done his country a great service', but how may people really care ?. And what changes will it bring about apart from Govenrments being more careful with their 'secrets'.

I think the Romans had it right with their bread and circuses. As long as here in the West people don't start starving, and can keep themselves entertained and distracted with all our clever devices, nothing will really change. A comfortable and complacent population is perfect for Governments, of any type.I am not hip and cool by any stretch, just cynical I guess. I don't think you have to believe in conspiracies either. Basically if a Government has the technology to do something, they usually do, it's as simple as that.

sorry but there's no point. You are arguing with the type of people who would have said a motor vehicle would never be as efficient as a horse.One thing is clear in all this mess, the majority of Australians do want the boats stopped. Anyone who believes otherwise is kidding themselves.2) Suicide is only rational if you assume death is preferable to life.

Sometimes it is. I can think of many scenarios where I would choose death over life. To say death is never preferable over life is your opinion, and your choice. But like religious beliefs, should not be imposed on others.

'suicide will never be anything more than a surrender to despair.' Again, your opinion. For others it is a sensible choice. We are all going to die one day you know, sometimes hastening the process is the preferred choice.

If stu did choose death, and the next day a miraculous cure was invented it was still his choice to make, not yours.

And you didn't answer the question.
The question cuts straight to the core of the issue, Not answering it is a cop out.So you wouldn't enjoy watching someone you care for die in pain, but you would not want the process hastened, even if that was their wish. In other words it's all about you, not them. Very telling.
My mother had lung cancer. She was drugged to the point on unconsciousness and left to die of dehydration. It took days and she would at times cry out and was clearly not 'peaceful'. How anyone can find a difference between killing someone this way, and giving them a needle is beyond me. She was killed, it is legal, and it is cruel. In many countries execution is legal, but no-one kills the most vile of criminals this way.

I, as are most people, are perfectly capable of taking my own life if I wanted to, I have the right. There's no way in hell I would let myself end up like my mother, she should have had that right too. We had talked when she was relatively well, given the choice she would have died at home surrounded by her husband, children, and pets. The law makers have been left behind, the more people who ignore them the better.I am no fan of the 'white guilt' type of thinking, or that we owe people something for what our ancestors may have done to some other people's ancestors. Disadvantaged people should be given help, but based on need, not who they are descended from.

But, a country should be aware of it's history warts and all. The Poms did invade Australia and some of the original inhabitants did try and fight back. I see no reason why this shouldn't be acknowledged at the War Memorial.yes I know about the 'technically', but I think realistically the term 'invaded' is appropriate. As with most of human history those with the biggest stick got what they wanted.so it's only a 'war' if both sides are similarly armed and resourced ?. Maybe it is, I am unsure.


No, it's saying at the time being discussed white Australians and Aboriginals weren't one people, which is pretty obvious don't you think ?.

There is no reason that being as truthful about our history as possible, should segregate us. People on both 'sides' of the debate need to learn to differentiate between the present and the past. It can be done.'It has become fashionable to speak of Labor when last in Government as a lot of undisciplined rabble.'

That's becuase it is true. The old truism is true, 'disunity is death'. Labor destroyed themselves, they gave Murdoch and Abbott everything they needed, and they did not deserve to be re-elected. We didn't deserve this lot either unfortunately, but Abott should have a little shrine to Rudd and Gillard that he prays to every night. Without their soap opera I doubt he ever would have been PM.I have, I looked at the 'population' page. A whole lot of waffle and not one word about reducing our population, or even stabilising it, no hard numebrs, just : 'A reduction in Australia's use of finite natural resources'. Which is a nice sentiment, but that's all.

I used to vote for The Greens, but they are not 'green' anymore, their focus has changed. SHY has herself said what motivated her to get into politics was the Tampa affair, a worthy goal maybe, but not an environmental issue.and you clearly think that refugees without the means or opportunity to come by boat can 'suffer out of sight, out of mind' and rot in hell for all you care. You clearly think it is 'kind' to encourage people to risk thier lives and spend all their money before they get help. Good system ?.It's not a conspiracy theory it's the way it is. Rabbithole just forgets to mention voter apathy.I am one who thinks humanity would be better off with less people. I am also honest enough to admit my inherant selfishness and base desire to live means I won't pop myself off (haven't bred though).

However, it is still true that if I, and a few billion others dropped dead tomorrow, far from being a tragedy, in the long run, I think it would be of benefit to those who were left. Of course if they didn't learn our mistakes the whole thing would just start again. 

Essentially it's the same reasoning that culling animals, when an imbalance has caused over-population, is preferable to letting them destroy an eco-system then starve to death.Sorry but the (without immigration) is crucial. It's true, with an educated populace, access to contraception, no religious taboos on it, and no need to breed population growth can start going backards.

But, our economy still survives on 'growth' so we import people. Humans need to learn how to live without continuous growth of population and consumption. That's the challenge.Doesn't matter. Those who are not currently resource hogs' would be if they could. The 'goal' is for everyone to be a resource hog.'It has tried to skip the step where they make people understand just how bad the coming fiscal crunch is and it is being punished for it.'

I don't think so. I think most people accept that Labor was hopeless with the budget, particularly by telling us they would get us back in surplus now, they lost all credibility.

In this budget neither the budget co-payment, or the petrol tax were going towards fixing the 'fiscal crunch'. Instead most people see that instead of raising revenue and/or closing some loop holes for the rich they are saving money by targeting the poor. 

At the same time they want the hugely expensive PPL and the direct action plan, which was just chucking money about ala Labor style.

Abbott is being punished for lying, and for being inconsistent. He 'sold' the message about the budget emergency fine, many people just don't like how he has chosen to 'fix' it.Agree. Anyone defending this bloke, should have a look at the web-site first.Given the 'dangerous ideas' theme I find it strange that there was a hoo-ha, about the topic. However, the speaker is another matter he works for a group who states it's aims as (brief extract from website) "the Party works to change the emotions in the society until they become Islamic emotions that accept only that which pleases Allah (swt) and rebel against and detest anything which angers Allah (swt)."

Mmmm what does 'rebel against' mean ????. Could that not be incitement to violence ???. Could I start an organisation thats stated aim was to 'rebel against and detest anything that is religious ???' 

Forget about global warming for a minute. Fossil fuels will get more expensive, and in the not too distant future not be a viable source of energy. So for all those who say 'renewable will never work so we should forget about them', what do they think we should do about the problem ?.

The PPL won't help break the glass ceiling.I have no opinion on climate change, the whole thing is very complicated, that's the problem. But anyone who says it is 100% pur rubbish, is just as bad as the 'alarmists' who say we are all doomed.

You don't know it's a load of bollocks, it's merely an opinion. which is fine, but a different thing. If I was dictator of the world I'd start weaning us of fossil fuels because A) they will run out anyway B) they cause good old fashioned pollution.Before all the nay sayers get in, here's my little story. A friend of mine's father died of MND about ten years ago. He did the ice bucket challenge posted it on facebook, and I, and alot of other other friends gave a donation to MND Australia. According to their web-site their donations are way up. 

So yes, it's a silly thing really, yes, we should donate without people tipping buckets on their head. Yes, it's a waste of water, etc. But, if it's raising money. good !.True, but charities have always 'competed' with each other to an extent. in the 'old days' we had the MS read-a-thon, Red Nose day, TV appeals, Daffodil day and so on. Social media changes the method, but not the intent.

I am naturally a cynical person, but with things like this I try to go with 'something is better than nothing'.You are trying to be clever with semantics to avoid the point. If a white Maccas owner only employed white staff, and that was a conscious decision, I expect you'd have a problem.'I would ask the people concerned that question: the refugees.' Why stop there. Why not ask refugees who have no hope of getting here by boat what they think ?.I agree that racism is natural, though not that it is nothing to be ashamed of. I agree with you, we should be able to 'evolve' past it.

But what frustrates me is the prevelant view of some that only, or mainly, it's white people who are racist. People who are happy to say "Australians are racists", but would have a fit if I said "X are sexist/homophobic/violent etc". 

Maybe you should read the articles before commentating. There is no demand for censorship. If you can't manage the whole thing, just try the last two paras.There are very few reasoned arguments.  As happy says most posters are welded on to one side of politics. When you believe your team is always right, and the other always wrong, 'reason' flies out the window.

For what it's worth I am economically conservative and socially progressive. There's no team left for me to barrack for !.I noticed that to. I'm a feminist, I hate this type of thing. It seems to imply that women are weaker than men and less able to look after themselves and/or men being attacked on-line doesn't matter so much.

Really stupid thing to say sister !.Without evidence to the contrary, religion is a fairy tale.That religion is a fairy story is a perfectly logical, and reasonable assumption. There is not one bit of evidence to suggest that god is real.Yes, it is an assumption, no argument there.I am an ex-Catholic athesist. I also work for a Catholic charity organisation. I would say we do Christ's work. We help anyone, non-judgementally regardless of race, religion, sexual orientation, etc. Drug addicts, the homeless, alcoholics, refugees, anyone and everyone is welcome. We help them, but don't try to convert them. My boss is a gay man, I am a single woman who 'lives in 'sin, another colleague is a Muslim.

My point is, there is good done by Catholics. But the Catholic Church 'management', all the way to the Vatican has absolutley nothing to do with the message of Christ. It is a big business that will go to any lengths to protect itself. It has no love, no compassion, and definately no moral authority. It's rotten to the core.

It gives all Catholics a bad name, so it's Catholics who should be appalled as much as anyone, and they need to demand change, not pretend it's 'just' a few bad apples.'I suspect that this is what Abbott had in mind'

See that's the problem. I can't stand Abbott either, and the term is clunky. But everything he has said in regard to it is perfectly sensible and should be completely non-controversial. If you've seen him say it means blind obedience etc, let me know.

As much as I don't like him it is unfair to put words in his (or anyone's) mouth. It's just complaining because you don't like him, classic playing the man not the ball.why bother with elections then ?. Just let companies run the world. Much more sensible then letting people vote. Don't worry, we're nearly there !. Happy days ahead.so what's your answer ?. There are Muslims here, and they are not going away. As I say in my post I see the problem as one between extremists and moderates, not Muslim and non-Muslim.

So the only solution would seem to be to try and ensure Muslims become more moderate, not more extreme. As an atesist I would prefer less religion, not more, but in a practical sense, what can we really do other than support and encourage moderate Muslims ?.

Christianity has been moderated to a large extent, that is what need to happen to Islam as well. What else can we do ?.I'm an atheist, I'd prefer if everyone gave up religion, but it's not going to happen anytime soon. It's cuture, not religion, that's the problem. People can interpret the Quran and the Bible to justify anything they like from universal peace to all out genocide. The 'war' is not between Muslins and non-Muslims, it's between moderates and extremists.

The vast majority of Muslims here are moderate, they are just getting along with their lives like the rest of us. If we start believeing that they would all secretly like to lop our heads off, then the terrorists are winning, that's what they want. 

If the non-Muslim population start marginalising Muslims, and expecting them to 'prove' they are not terrorists in waiting, and making them feel unwelcome in their own country, then the terrorists will be winning. If you believe your society hates and fears you, you will begin to hate back.

But, Muslims also have work to do. It might not be fair that they, to some extent, get tarred with the same brush, but that's human nature. They have to accept that the main cause of their 'image' problem is not 'racist' Australians, it's the nutters around the world doing disgusting things in their name. They are the enemy, not the family who run our local fish and chip shop.Change 'Bill Shorten' to Tony Abbott, and 'Abbott' to Gillard/Rudd, and your statements works just as well. That, I believe is Sandra's point, the all do it, so we're sick of the whole lot of them.I'm no fan of Abbott, I can't stand him actually. His 'Team Australia' phrase is clunky and a bit silly. But, the basic premise behind it is straight forward and perfectly uncontroversial.  I haven't seem anything that he has actually said in regard to it that is in anyway divisive.

So far, on this issue, criticism of him seems just like criticism for it's own sake from people who don't like him.I too find the very notion of religion offensive. The fact that people can believe there is a supernatural being who we are meant to worship seems so utterly stupid I find it offensive. 

But as ever, if religious people leave me alone I'll leave them alone, and they can find my disregard of their god offensive too if you like.

I agree with you, extremism is the problem not religion. But finding religion by it's very nature offensive is a valid position.I agree with you that the majority of Muslims in Australia are peaceful, law abiding citizens. However you must acknowledge that anti-Muslim sentiment is not because most Australians are nasty racists, it's because of these nutters that are giving you all a bad name. Most people don't have a problem with Buddhists, for example. 

Have you tried asking these kids if they would prefer to exist, or prefer not to exist ?.

That's one of the problems with your argument, most people are glad they exist, even if the circumstances where a bit unusual.What about the 'is it anyone's business' test. I'm a healthy woman who never desired children. It is not inconceivable (pardon the pun) that at some point in my life, for the right amount of money, I would have 'hired out' my womb. So I win, the parents win, and that baby wins, and why should anyone be able to stick their noses in ?. Even if I had regretted it later, it would be my mistake to make.

Now I accept it does leave people open for exploitation, and that in itself might be enough to justify a ban, like banning selling organs, but I certainly don't see it as a moral issue.As I said, I think some things should be banned to prevent exploitation, I was just disagreeing with the notion that the very idea of commercial surrogacy is 'immoral'. And yes, I don't understand this need to pass on genes, though it is obviously a very strong urege for some.You can't deny that some Christians want to impose their beliefs on the rest of us. The ACL's website states:

The vision of the Australian Christian Lobby is to see Christian principles and ethics accepted and influencing the way we are governed, do business and relate to each other as a community.

Note - the way we are governed. They certainly do not represent all, or even most Christians, I accept that. But a religious group that wants to impose religious rules onto the wider populace is anti-democratic, whether they be Christian, Muslim, or whoever.

Sure they don't want to chop people's heads off, but that's a matter of degree, the principle is the same.Agree.

But, if you see democracy as 'government by the people for ALL the people' then having religious beliefs imposed on non-religious people, is undemocratic.

If forcing someone to do something purely because it is a 'God law' is wrong, than equally stopping someone doing something purely because it breaks a 'God law' is equally wrong, in my view.Technically yes. My point is that a Church or organisation that does try to persuade the Parliament to apply it's religious laws on the wider population is wrong, the only difference between being against gay marriage, and lopping heads off, is one of degree.So we ignore those that are the worst because others are bad too ?.So do we just do nothing about anything ?.That, unfortunately, is just not going to happen for many reasons we are all aware of. And yes it is hypocritical.

But I still think doing something to help some people is better than doing nothing and helping nobody. Sometimes pragmatism is better then lofty principles. If we could (not saying we can) do something to stop the North Koreans committing these horific crimes against it's citizens, I'd say do it, and would wear the tag of hypocrite, no problem.

And at the same time also demand better of our own Government and that of our masters in the USA. I don't have any better ideas than that.You would have stayed out of WW2 then ?.and pulling out the 'xenophobe' card against anyone who questions the sense of only helping refugees who must spend all their money, and risk their lives, is also extremely tedious.

and people who assert that all concern and compassion about drownings, and the fate of refugees stuck in camps is 'fake', is also extremely tedious.

and people who think there is a simple solution to the issue is also extremely tedious.

and people who take the moral high ground, while offering no practical solutions, is also extremely tedious.'This is in effect a mandatory ten years for recklessness. Yes, nothing wrong with that. Add in 'reckless' driving while we're at it. The notion of personal responsibility, is a dirty word these days. If your 'recklessness' results in a death, it should be a tough penalty.'Minimum non-parole period of 10 years for fatal coward punches'

That's what it says. It's a stretch to see how someone trying to defend their wife from rape would be considered a coward punch.I'd say do both. And yes, if we lock up more people for longer we need to spend more on prisons. Not just because of numbers, but to give them a better chance at rehabilitation, but that's another topic.

At the end of the day, if someone you loved was killed by one of these punches, do you think ten years would be too much ?.Not necessarily. If the time in prison is spent on dealing with their issues, providing training and education, that could improve rehabilitation. I agree just chucking them in and throwing away the key does not.'Judges must have the flexibility to impose sentencing in proportion to the crime, taking into account all the circumstances and specifics'

I can't imagine any circumstances where someone who committed this specific crime didn't deserve ten years. Maybe some types of mental illness, that's about it. Certainly not because they were drunk or high. Remember the victim has lost their life, now that's a mandatory sentence.The strange thing is, it didn't have to be this way. Most people were fed up with Labor and their inability to sort themselves out internally. The whole thing was a fiasco. Plus the 'no carbon tax' cross to bear, their inability to stop the boats (like it or not that's what most people want), plus their constant cries of 'we'll get the budget back in surplus', made them unelectable.

I think most people also realised we need to raise revenue and cut spending and would have been quite undertsanding of a more softly, softly approach, as long as it was seen to be reasonably 'fair', and consistent (no PPL for example). All Abbott and co had to do was do the 'relaxed and comfortable' approach, not be controversial, stay united, not make stupid gaffes, and they'd be riding high. 

So they are either driven by pure ideology and will stick to their principles even if it means losing power (admirable in a way), or someone is pulling their strings. But even that doesn't make sense as the 'string pullers' wouldn't want them to lose either. Buggered if I know.I agree. When anyone says 'the world is watching us' or 'the world is judging us' or 'the world will follow our lead' you know they are either stupid, or are tryng to make a point and assume other people are stupid.

I like being insignificant too.So, if people approved of Gillard just because she's a woman, that would be a really weak minded moronic think to do.

But, if people approve of Bishop just because she's a woman that would be a perfectly sound decsion to make ?.

If the 'rabid left' cheered on Bishop because she's a woman, even though she believes in principles they despise, wouldn't that be hypocritical ?.

You are confusing yourself. And there are plenty of hypocritical weak minded morons of both 'teams', that's why sensible people are fed up wuth both sides.My sister had a job where she interacted alot with politicians, both those in Government and Opposition. She decided there were three types

1) Those who are competent and begin with good intentions but become corrupted by the system and become part of it.
2) Those who merely like the trappings of 'power' and are content to let those who gave them the power call the shots.
3) Those who want power for themselves and will be do and say pretty much anything to get it.

She'd decided an honest and competent politician is pretty much impossible (definately in the major Parties) they just can't succeed, and either turn to the 'dark side' or give up.

From the LNP or Labor, who ?Exactly. Forget global warming, burning fossil fuel is not a long term option. Some people seem to think that it will be the peak of human ingenuity so when the stuff does run out/become too expensive humanity will obviously be doomed. If you instead believe we can learn to live without it, why not start now ?.

The notion that 'greenies want to put us back in caves' is often bandied about. I reckon with the 'let's just keep doing what we've always done' mindset, we never would have got out of the caves in the first place !.'You assume that it must be done sooner and not later.'

Why not now ?. Why wait while oil etc just slowly goes up and up and up ?. The 'market' isn't a god. And fossil fuels do cause good old fashioned pollution, if we can come up with better ways why not ?. 

The 'future generations can sort it out, I don't care, I want cheap power' view makes sense in a selfish way. I just don't share it, and the amount of people who do feel that way, and have children, amazes me. No idea about you of course, just making a general point.
As I said, forget global warmimg. My argument is that we, the rich countries should develop the new technologys needed to deal with expensive fossil fuel now, not later.

That will help developing countries in the long term too.
I call myself a feminist, in part because as a woman in my mid-forties I appreciate the huge benefits feminsim has opened up for me in my lifetime. But, even I'm getting sick of modern feminism. Too much navel gazing, too much whinging, too much first world problem rubbish, too much hypocrisy, too much blaming, too much ridiculous utopian idealism, too much whinging (did I say that already ?).

I'm not a fan of Julie Bishop politically, but I don't blame her for not calling herself a feminist. 'Professional' feminists drive me nuts !. Maybe feminism, like Unionism, has been so succesful it's done itself out of a job so now is on an endless search for relevance.

Feminism has lost it's meaning, for me it's equality of opportunity, that's it, end of story. That has largely been achieved. Many young, well educated confident young women I work with, are getting on with their lives and have huge choices and opportunities open to them. They are too busy getting on with it, no time for burning bras and contemplating Time magazine.As a girl then a woman I was 'allowed' to go to school, the Uni, then get a job, have my own bank account, buy a property on my own, vote, work my way up the corporate ladder, be a Manager, boss men around (in the nicest way). I was under no real pressure to marry, or have children. If a man assaulted me he would be breaking the law. If I prefer I can see a female doctor, lawyer, accountant, policewoman, pretty much any profession. I can read female journalists, and authors, listen to female musicians, and so on. When I did find a partner he found it 'normal' that he was not the boss, that we are equal partners in a team.

Most of my female peers have the same experiences. I believe that in our society today socio-economic factors have far more influence on people's outcomes, than their gender.'suicide is an irrational act.'

Not all the time.
'Society' used to think slavery was fine, women were inherantly dumber than men, stoning to death was a good idea, and so on. Just because an idea is widely held, or popular, doesn't make it 'rational'. Also, just because something is often irrational, it doesn't follow that it is always irrational.ah it's all so simple in your world.'You lefties tend to like this as the more disengaged and uninformed the voting public is, the more votes you get!'

That's tough. If you live in a democracy and get the benefits of it you should vote, voting should be compulsory, like obeying the law.

The tactics used by Republicans to doscourage voting is enough in itself to keep it compulsory, it's appalling, and no doubt if it suited the Democrats they'd do it too.What a load of twaddle. Being a citizen gives you rights and responsibilites. Voting every few years should be one of those responsibilites, and you can just not fill in the ballot paper if you really don't want to vote. 

I'll go with your system if those who choose not to vote forgo the benefits of society, you know things like free education and health care, police, firemen. A stable democratic society only works if people vote, so just like obeying the law is 'compulsory', so should voting be. If an individual chooses to live in a society they have a responsibility to contribute to it, and voting is essential. Where would we be if no-one voted ?.Yes, as they say "growth for growths sake is the ideology of a cancer cell'. The model will break, but I doubt anything will be done until that happens, as someone put it the other day "Humans only do the sensible thing when all else has failed".

It does suprise me that some genuinely seem to believe that endless growth is possible. As the Earth isn't growing as well it clearly is not. We either have to contract and become steady, or hop on the Starship Enterprise. Given we haven't invented warp drive it will be the former, if we were smart we could do it slowly and steadily, but we aren't so it won't be.Do you have any idea how many people shove their old folks into homes ?. Regardless, I have no children. I have planned to look after myself. Hopefully I will keep healthy and fairly independent into old age. If not I plan to take another option, and that's not to rely on the State.

Having more than one child in an over-populated world is selfish (that's OK I am selfish in different ways - we are all selfish). Having them so they can look after you in your old age is just plain stupid.The statement : "Or that most people euthanising themselves aren't even in pain, but just feel that life with disability isn't life worth living?" seems perfectly fine with me. If you think it's bad that's a value judgement, which is fine, but not one I share.

If I could predict the future, and found out I'd become a quadrapelgic, I expect I's commit suicide first, because once it had happened I wouldn't have the choice.

My decision might be a mistake, but it's my mistake to make.
'doesn't that happen now?'

That is often overlooked in this debate, yes it does happen now. If you drug someone to the point of unconsciousness, and then give them no fluids, they will die as surely as if you had given them an injection. It just takes days and days. This happened to my mother, and is common place.

We are 'killing' people now, we just pretend we don't, and it is cruel.No I have no quibble with the hospital, they could do nothing else. If I locked you in a room and didn't give you water, and left you there to die have I not murdered you ?. Of course I have.

You are saying that if of 100 people with a certain disability, say 50 decided they'd prefer to die, they in fact should be forced to live so the other 50 people don't feel that a judgement has been made about their disability. Sorry that's nuts.

In all this 'who's to blame' the airline industry appears to be overlooked. They were all flying over a war zone to save money on fuel. Not a good idea.'There was no reason whatever why they should have won the last Federal election'

Sorry Alpo, yes there was, Labor. What would you say about the LNP if say Hockey kicked out Abbott, then Abbott spent years undermining his own Party, then Hockey got kicked out and Abbott put back in ?. That was a disaster for Labor.

Another poster a while back summed up the last election the best I think "We knew we were getting a knob, but the circus had to end".Sorry men, I'm going to be sexist here. Being a CEO of a big company seems to need a particular type of person. That is a ruthless, workaholic, ambitious meglomaniac with no empathy or compunction at all. The type of person who is happy to sack thousands of people, and do many other unsavoury things, because the ONLY consideration is to make more, more, more money every single year forever.

Maybe women just don't like that sort of job. And many men wouldn't do it either so maybe I'm only being a bit sexist.

'They blame it on the KPI.' Maybe not.

I big study was done in the US recently. It confirms what most people know as common sense. People employ people who are like them. So, given qualifications, experience, etc are the same a man will be more likely employ a man, a woman will employ a woman. And further a black man will employ a black man, and so on. And it's not just race. If you worked your way up from the working class to be a lawyer, you will favour those like you. Or, the other way, if you went to an exclusive school, you'll favour people who did as well. This is not conscious descrimination, by the way.

Now given that until recently, in our society, nearly all positions of power have been held by a particular socio-economic group of white men, they have the advantage of this trait, and the white male supremacy continued. This is an argument for quotas by the way, to break this 'deadlock' for want of a better word.

Personally I am undecided about quotas, but that's the theory.Maybe. They'd have to prove they were better qualified than the woman I guess. That's the point of quotas, not giving jobs to less qualified people, giving them to qualified people who may not otherwise have got the job (as outlined above).

Like I said, I agree with the above phenonomen and believe it's still does give a certain type of man an advantage. I'm not sure of the best way to overcome it though. Quotas are 'fast', but maybe cause more problems than they solve. I really don't know.'Julia Gillard was a complete and utter dud.' Well she managed to become the PM of Australia !. Regardless, I don't have a very good opinion of her either, but you do realise, your statement is also an opinion. Others think she is brillaint. Who's correct ?. Neither, it's just all opinion.No, the Pastor is saying the glass ceiling isn't caused by sexism, it's there because, in general, men are more aggressive and ruthless than women, and therefore suceed in areas (like CEO's and politics) where these traits are very beneficial. The genders not the issue, it's the personality. Men more often have that type of personality, hence the gender imbalance. 

If you look at more 'nice' professions, like being a doctor, women have bridged the gender gap very quickly, so there could well be something other than sexism going on in the Boardrooms.Becuase if you believe in climate change you have to accept we should change our comfy indulgent lifestyles, which is not a nice prospect, and believing we are causing huge damage to our only home is plain scary.

I look at it this way. Imagine if we were looking at another planet through a big telescope and had been doing so for some time. Imagine the climate started changing and most of the scientists agreed it was for 'X' reason. There'd be no 'huge' debate in the general populace, no-one would doubt them, because it would have no effect on us.Marvellous, amazing, stupendous !. I am perpetually perplexed how humanity can be so incredibly clever and so incredibly stupid at the same time.

Imagine what we could do if the balance tipped from the stupid to the clever. Can only live in hope.'So why, why, why?, are so many dollars spent on external global adventures, when we have failed to learn how to tidy up our own backyards.'

You could always say that. I hope one day we do tidy up our own backyards, but if we use that as an excuse not to expand our knowledge, we'll get nowhere, and we wouldn't have many of the things we take fro granted, like the internet.
we already have all the money and technology needed to end poverty in the world, the reasons why we don't are many and complex.

My first priority would be stopping wars, and the need for armed forces, not stopping science and technology.Yes, I would hope we can get rid of the former and keep the latter. That would be a huge step in the evolution of humans.'down the road towards the status of an impenetrable xenophobic fortress.'

yes, yes, blah, blah Australians are are all terrible racists. Hello, we are still taking refugees, not just the ones who have the means and money to get here by boat.

I hold the view that stopping the boats is good, and increasing our refugee intake is good, so am I a 'goodie' or a 'baddie' ?. And I wonder what 'boat people' advocates would say to people in camps who wait for years and years for a chance to come here. Those who could never get on a boat.

Imagine if we ran our hospitals on the basis that those who managed to get there under their own steam, and pay up-front, would get to see a doctor, everyone else missed out. Great system !.

But, keep at it, keep up the emotive, idealistic diatribes that offer no solution. Keep throwing petty insults at those who have another point of view. It's working really well so far.

I don't blame them and in their position I might try to do the same. But, if the boats are stopped, the detention will stop. It is harsh but so are many things we do. If a homeless person robbed a bank we don't say 'oh that's OK they need the money', because then more people would try to rob a bank. I see it as similar to Governments not paying ransom if a citizen is kidnapped by terrorists/criminals. That's terrible for the individual, it might even mean their death, but if the Government did start paying it creates more problems then it solves. 
Why not just admit you don't want them in the country under any circumstances.

How about because it's not true.'What's wrong with Julian Burnside's suggestion of sending refugees to Tasmania?'

Nothing, but the issue is how many ones do we allow in, where should they come from, and how do we manage it.'Err that's the exact system that the Govt are trying to get through the back door at the moment'

and do you support that sytem ?.

And as I have said elsewhere if I was in there position I might try the same thing, but that doesn't mean it's a workable solution. I have done volunteer work with African refugees helping them with their English, guess what, many of them want the the boats stopped as they hope it may mean some of their families have a better chance of coming here. In the end, the cold hard fact is we cannot save the world.If I saw anywhere near the same level of noise and anger over Australia's lacklustre refugee intake as I did about the "boat people", I would have much more confidence and faith in our country.

I agree, I think the general opinion is more one of apathy than anything else. But 'boat people' advocates are not helping the cause. they too have raised barely a whimper about the cut in intake.I read an Age article about a refugee who spent all his families money getting him and his family a spot on a boat. Then he saw the boat and how unseaworthy it was and wouldn't get on it. he didn't get his money back.

People smugglers are scum playing on people's hopes and fears. They take all their money and don't give a damn if they drown. You are right, we can't take them all. So the only even vaguely fair way is to take some from all over the world based on need, even a lottery system would be fairer. But to do that, you have to stop the boats. And the boats won't stop unless the outcome is that you won't be resettled here, which is cruel for those relatively few individuals involved. But it is good for those refugees who get here that replace them. That is the harsh reality.I disagree that there are two opposing views 'total open' or 'total shut'. I stated my view above, stop the boats, but up the intake. My opinion (which could be wrong) is that many people are of a similar mind. Evidence ?. Well when Labor upped the intake there was no huge outcry, and I hardly ever see the opinion that we should take no refugees at at all.

I have no doubt Australia (as everywhere) has some racists who would happily stop all immigration of the 'other', including 'legal' immigrants, but I don't think that's a majority. But 'boat people' advoactes seem unable to undertand that 'stopping the boats' and 'stopping the refugees' are two entirely different things.

Surely the question asked should be 'What is the best way Australia can take a number of refugees from all around the worls, and how many can that reasonably be when you consider costs and overall population growth?'. I don't think the answer 'just let in all the ones who can manage to get to Indonesia, and spend all their money, and risk their lives in' is a good one.Agree. The ultimate answer is that there are no refugees in the first place. We can't solve that problem, maybe it's impossible.Agree.In ancient times people rationally concluded that the things they couldn't understand were caused by gods. The Sun was a wheel of a chariot driven by a god for example. Made perfect sense to them, perfectly rational.

You are doing the same. Because there are things that are beyond our understanding for now, or maybe forever, you conclude that God must exist. You are welcome to your belief, but it isn't rational, well as rational as believing in a Sun god.

I love hard sci-fi, and don't mind a bit of Star Trek type stuff either, and I have a keen interest, but very limited understanding of astronomy and cosmology and physics. Realising how tiny and insignificant we are, is a marvellous tonic against all the ridiculous stuff we worry about. One day the Earth will be gone, so why worry about Abbott being PM or the thought of Shorten as PM !. 

I don't see how anyone could read even a little bit of this stuff, which really is fantastic in the true sense of the word, then still be interested in the Kardashans, whoever they may be.I have never had a weight problem. I'm not sure why, a combination of good genes, no food addiction, and a fairly healthy lifestyle perhaps. Maybe that is why I am completely mystified by the whole 'diet' industry. If you want to lose weight, and keep it off, you surely need to change your diet and maybe lifestyle forever, not go 'on' a diet for a limited. Why do people think they can go 'on' a diet, lose weight, go 'off' the diet, and then be 'fixed' ?.It's not a criticism, just a question. That's how I try to increase my knowledge, asking questions.Here's the question again:

Why do people think they can go 'on' a diet, lose weight, go 'off' the diet, and then be 'fixed' ?.

Where's the smugness ?. I am baffled by the 'diet industry'. When you give up smoking, as I have done, you stop forever. So how can you go on and off a diet ?. It's like starting and stopping smoking over and over again isn't it. ? And no-one would think that's a good idea.Sorry but I disagree. I eat loads of veg and fruit, fish, some chicken, wholegrains, little bit of red meat, and hardly any processed food. I find that easy. I accpet that for reasons I don't understand, like addiction, or other mental or physical health issues some people have trouble with that sort of diet, but not your reasons.

I still eat out and with friends. You can choose fish and salad and maybe a small serve of chips, or have two entrees one as a main, share a dessert with someone else, don't have the white bread, ask for a small steak without the sauce, or only a little bit. There are loads of options. And something 'bad' every now and again is fine.

If people have issues which cause them to over eat I'm all for them getting the help they need, but in the end, you do have to take responsibility for yourself. Saying you can never eat out or with friends is just not the case.That's because things like minimum wages and safe working conditions are now legislated. Unions have been so successful they have done themselves out of a job.Rubbish. There usefullness might be over, but that's because they've been so successful. Unionism has done much to halp the 'average' person. I expect you know of the pay and conditions 'enjoyed' by workers in Industrial England, is that your perfect society ?.

At it's core Unionism is a simple concept where people choose to negotiate as a group to obtain a better outcome for themselves. This is 100% democratic. If you were a worker down a coal mine in the 19th century I'd expect you'd have a different point of view.

Complain about some modern Unions all you like, but as with capitalism, and democracy itself, corrupt individuals within these movements do not make the entire concepts 'undemocratic'.If you think the Cabinet was chosen on merit, you're dreaming. And that doesn't mean there should be more women. If these are the most competent men the LNP can muster, it's a very small talent pool.It is possible to criticise the LNP without being a left winger you know. I'd say the same about the Labor Party. Those who come to power in our political system are those who play the 'game' in their respective Parties, their 'merit' is in how well they play, not much else. I think Shorten is worse than Abbott. I fully support 'stopping the boats' and getting the budget back in surplus (LNP not doing too well there). I have no problem with the medicare co-payment, and work for the dole, as two other examples.

Politics for you may be a team support where you just barrack for one side, it's not for me.a few posts above someone else has listed many example, no point repeating them.'if a woman of the right works herself to a successful career, that's great for her individual success, but it does next to nothing for the cause of feminism as a whole.'

I disagree. The main problem minorities have (in this case women aren't an overall minority, but are a minority in positions of power) is that they are seem as different, unusual, not 'normal', and generally people are wary of things outside the norm. Every women who succeeds in these area makes the concept of women in power more 'normal', and therefore breaks down the overall stereotype.

Look at GP's. A hundred years ago a femal doctoe was a rare and starnge thing, now there are so many of them it's 'normal'. The barriers, like thinking women weren't smart enough, did have to be broken, but it then needed women to use their individual endeavours to become doctors and therefore change society.

Just by seeing women in power means younger women believe they can do it too, even if the woman CEO or whoever doesn't give a stuff about changing society and helping others. Her mere presence is what is important.No. Your ignore when I said 'The barriers, like thinking women weren't smart enough, did have to be broken.' All us modern women owe a debt to those who chained themselves to the railings. I agree with you. In fact I call myself a  feminist in part to honour what they did. I didn't mention Gillard or Bishop, so not sure what that's got to do with what I said.

You've ignored my main point, which is up to you of course.Part of the problem is feminism has come to mean different things to different people. This is the simple definition from the Oxford dictionary : The advocacy of women?s rights on the ground of the equality of the sexes. Now I expect Bishop would agree with that, so she should be a 'feminist'.

But, as the article says the term feminism has become synonomous with the 'left' so Bishop and those like her are stuck. The summation 'women of the left see the need for society to be changed, whereas women of the right see it as a matter of individual endeavour' seems pretty good.

Maybe the 'left' need to realise that most of that work has been done, and now it does come down to individual endeavour more than anything else. I work with many young, bright, ambitious teenage girls. I doubt they'll be help back by the patriarchy. They won't be marching in the streets burning their bras, they'll be living their lives they way they want. I hope they spare a though for those who made it possible every once in a while though.Were Abbott's years as Opp Leader a 'temper tanty' ?. There wouldn't be much Lambie and I agree on, but she actually says what she means so we can judge hew on her words and actions. Politicians in the major Parties are too gutless to ever say what they mean, one of the reasons many people are fed up with the lot them.

As for the issue, giving  ADF personnel in effect a pay cut, while persisting with things like the PPL is a disgrace. Seems more like something the Greens would try.

she said they should scrap the PPL and use some of that money. I'm no fan of hers, but there's no need to make stuff up. Abbott says 'we can't afford it', not that they would get a pay rise if other savings were passed.that's stupid, as you probably know. I'm happy we've 'stopped the boats'. I would be happier if we increased our refugee intake from all over the world so people other than those who could manage to get on a boat have a chance at a new life. We are still taking refugees you know. Stopping the boats IS NOT stopping the refugees, just changing the ways they can get here.

You can say my point of view is wrong, but to equate it with this kind of stuff is just ridiculous.and again, we are still taking refugees !.

I have worked as a volunteer helping African asylum seekers with their English, they didn't come by boat. Why 'boat people' advocates happily ignore all the other refugees who can't get on a boat is beyond me.

Imagine you were stuck in a camp for a decade or more, with no money, and no hope of getting on a boat. All you can do is wait and hope. How would you feel about those who come by boat ?.  
'Religion is of course at the root cause of the problem.'

No it's not. Extremism is the root cause of the problem. I'm an atheist by the way. An extreme religious person may try to force their beliefs onto me, that's not going to end well. An extreme athesist may try to ban religion, that's not going to end well either.

Imagine a world where everyone truly believed in 'thou shalt not kill' and 'love one another'. Now, it's not a future I would hope for, but it would be a peaceful world. We are not going to rid the world of religion for a long time yet, if ever. The best we can do is to encourage moderate religion.If the assertions made here are correct then either 1) Brandis is deliberately deceiving the Australian people on an ongoing basis 2) he is incompetent and shouldn't be AG. I can't think of any other options.

Time for Shorten to show a bit of nerve, unfortunately I doubt he will.This scenario only applies if you believe people are defined by their jobs, and have nothing else of value in their lives. It's perfectly easy to have direction, purpose, and hope, and not roam aimlessly without doing what we call a 'job'. 

Small example, I (by choice) only work two days a week. The other days (among other things) I put aside 1 1/2 hours for reading non-fiction. I've learned heaps, have widened my horizons, and it's opened my mind. That has been far more rewarding than sitting behind my old desk going through useless emails. 

Sorry, but your comment seems very strange to me.True. Maybe I misunderstood your initial comment as it did not mention as in waht are 'supposed to do with their time if they have no work?.

If paid work as we know it largely diminishes then there will need to be some different way of people getting income to live. That is a huge issue, but a different one. My point was merely that you don't need a 'job' to have a filfilling life, you need income no doubt, but that's a different thing.It didn't lead to breakdowns of families. If everyone had been happy then they weren't going to 'break down' just because a law was changed. Forcing people to stay in unhappy relstionships because of societal pressure is crazy.The history is the plain undisputed facts, everything else is opinion. Including your comments. I'm too young to remember the Whitlam years, so I don't have a strong opinion on him one way or another.

But your assertion he was a 'terrible leader' is just as much an opinion as thse who say he was a 'great leader'. Neither of these statements are rewriting history. This inability of people to distinguish between fact and opinion happens all the time and is vey annoying. Have all the opinion you want, but recognise it as such.

Then people start arguing over whose opinion is fact. It's like arguing over favourite colours - blue is the best, NO red is a much better colour, no red is garish, blue is restful, no blue is bland, red is exciting, blah, blah, blah. Ridiculous.Had never heard of Dunham until now, seems to me a storm in a tea cup. All kids play 'doctors and nurses' when little, and many teenage girls have 'practiced' kissing each other. What's the fuss about ?.

As for 'Dunham's white privilege means nothing she says or does will propel white feminists to criticise her.', the point is she's done (from what I can see here, including the links) nothing to be criticised for. 

True, whether that's right or wrong is another matter. I remember, at six or seven, engaging in 'you show me yours I'll show you mine' with a boy of the same age. No problems there.
When I was about thirteen my fourteen year old brother dared me to kiss him, is that abuse ?. It is tricky.

I agree that 'We could use this an opportunity to discuss the boundaries we place on kids, what constitutes "normal" childhood curiosity and what behaviour crosses a line.' In the past whole families slept in the same room so children from a very young age must have seen and/or heard their parents have sex, this would have been perfectly normal I expect (happy to be corrected). It seems that in the modern age as adults have become more liberated about sex, it has become more of a taboo with children.

We rightly (and often fail) try to protect children from abuse. Have we gone too far, have we become completely paranoid about anything vaguely sexual in regard to children ?. I don't know.



I have always called myself a feminist. In part in recognition of those who came before, from whose work I have benefitted greatly from, in part because I believe in the concept of equal opportunity despite gender, which is what it should be about, and in part because I refuse to be 'scared off' from referring to myself as one because of 'extreme' feminism, much of which I disagree with.

But, things like this test my resolve. Many/most modern prominent feminists seem to have lost the plot in my view.Mike Alsbury was an engineer and experienced test pilot. I wouldn't call him a 'dare devil'. The author didn't bother to name him, or it seems find out anything about him. Implying he was trying to 'piss the farthest' is insulting to his memory, and to his famly.

As all test pilots are he would have been aware of the risks, but felt they were controllable, and minimal. I expect the author has flown in an airliner, we wouldn't have those without these 'dare devil' men she seems to despise.

This to me is a sloppy ill-considered attempt at humour, not to mention sexist.How about;

But death needs to be put in perspective. If likelihood of demise is increased by your poor choice of partner, and yet you still sign on, it's less tragic and more so a finale fit for a idiot.

This is an extraordinary bad piece, and not just for the rudeness and sexism.Alpo, my partner and I are low income earners by choice. We both earn (by chance more than planning) just a bit more than the tax threshold, so don't really pay bugger all. And we consume pretty much all home cooked fresh food, so don't pay GST on that either. We also buy clothes and household goods second hand, no GST there either.

We are probably one of your 'exceptiosns' but the food exemption part makes a huge difference to GST for the on low incomes, or at least it should.

Don't be ridiculous. How does business get the 'opportunity' ?. By being given billions of dollars from the Government. Where does the money come from ?. Tax. The Government uses money collected via tax and gives it away it to try and reduce GHG emmissions. It's a carbon tax !.

About time it gets some scrutiny.The author's position on the free market is irrelevant. He is merely pointing out the contradictions in the Government's policies.

So what is 'hilarious' is the Governments position, not the authors.I agree, it's about context as much as anything else. When I was younger, and fitter, I'd go jogging. I'd get some 'hello beuatifuls' and the like. Well I don't care that these men thought I was beautiful, I was not 'dressed up' just dressed for exercise. Why tell a prefect stranger they're beautiful, pointless isn't it ?. It was mainly innocuous and easy to ignore, sometimes it was creepy, and very occassionally I felt a bit threatened. 

Whether it's 'harassment' is up for interpretation. To me it just makes the bloke look like a stupid idiot. So if you want to be friendly to strangers, make sure you also say 'hello' to old men and women and other blokes, and not so 'beautiful' women, or your just a stupid creep.

Or just don't make comments to people you don't know who are just walking down the street. It's pointless. If you want to make new friends there are lots of better ways.I don't see how you could manage to say 'hello' to every single person you walk past on a busy street, but never mind. Look at it this way. I expect you are trying to be nice, but as the other person is a complete stranger, you have no way of knowing how they will interpret your 'hello'. Therefore the only way to be sure you don't cause some level of distress is to say nothing.

You are correct, times have changed. In a small town where everyone knows each other, or knows of each other, it might be different. But we are talking about complete strangers, who will never see each other again, in big cities, just passing each other by on the street. Now I'm older (and less 'beautiful')  a 'hello' wouldn't make me feel harassed, but frankly, random strangers saying 'hello' to me every couple of minutes would be plain annoying. It's simply not practical.I think you're missing the point. Sure being beautiful (for either sex) gives you an advantage in life, some exploit that more than others.

But she wasn't auditioning, or going for an interview, she was merely walking down the street in plain clothes. It's not her 'fault' she's attractive, does this mean she can't walk down the street in peace ?. I'm sorry, I expect you don't mean it, but it seems you are saying the attention is her 'fault' because of  the way she looks, and the men can't help themselves because of evolution.

But I agree with you in the end, cat calling is creepy, most men realise that thank goodness.This is not about 'starting conversations'. People don't expect to 'start conversation's with random people walking down the street. In a pub, at a party, at work, yes.

If a person started trying to 'start conversations' with someone else as they were going about their business walking down a street it would be weird.

You know this isn't about 'starting conversations'. But regardless, if I'm walking to work, or to meet someone, or going to an appointment I don't want random strangers trying to strike up a conversation. I'm on my way, I have limited time, I'm not ineterested in random strangers making small talk. It's not anti-social, it's just common sense to me.

And as you are unaware of how your 'attempt' will be taken, why not just not do it. As I said, there's plenty of places where you can have a conversation with a stranger if that's what you want.
I read a sci fi book with a version of this. Every citizen had their 'profile' like a CV with other stuff like religious beliefs, basic ideologies, personality profile, even hobbies etc in a computer. 

The computer would then pick a panel to run the country for a few years based on these profiles, and there was much more direct democracy through voting via computer, plus a strong Bill of Rights to stop any sort of 'mob rule'. Also you could only vote, and be up for selection if you had a certain level of education (provided free), and had passed a 'citizen' test.

Worked well in the book ! .'it's a sign that society doesn't believe your views are worth sharing and shouldn't be implement'

No, it's a sign society is apathetic. How many people bother to see what Independents stand for ?. And regardless, unless you win outright, with the 2PP system the vote ends up going to LabLibs anyway.

Democracy doesn't work perfectly but it's due to apathy more than anything else.I think you're correct. We humans are self-centred, selfish, and don't think beyond their own lifetime. When we were a few hunter-gatherers that doesn't matter so much. Now, we are quite happy to take the risk of trashing the planet so we can have a new phone every year.

Will we evolve past our baser instincts, or contine this way forever. My favourite question, which I have no idea of the answer !.

I was more intrigued by the comments she made about Cathy Freeman. Particulalry because if she was a white person I'd expect there'd be howls of outrage about how she was being 'racist'. 

Some people should realise that if you make insulting comments about another person, just because they may be a different race, or from a different culture from you they are not automatically racist. The racism tag gets flung about much too readily these days.

It's not only incorrect use of the word, it also belittles the experiences of people who really do suffer from racism. Calling a person dumb may be nasty, but it that's a different thing entirely.I agree. We (understandably) are doing lots of things to stop people dying from illness or malnutrition or whatever, and to make us all live longer. Even in countries like ours where the birth rate is low our econimies would collapse without growing population from immigration.

It should be blatantly obvious that endless growth in population and consumption is impossible. So what are we doing about it ?. Nothing. Like lemmings towards the cliff is the human race.Not plummeting enough, and as I said, where birth rates are low there is still immigration to prop up the 'endless growth' cycle.The point is our modern economies rely on growth, either of population or consumption, or both. Now, if all countries get to below replacement levels, and don't need to prop up their economies with immigration, if we can figure out how to get by with a shrinking population, and without using up so many resources, then we'll be getting somewhere.Milne won't support it because the money is supposedly just being used to build more roads. I'm not a Greens supporter, but in this instance, their stance is consistent with what they believe in, which is more public transport not roads. 

That's what the Greens are doing. Agree or not they say they won't support it because the money will be used to build more roads. That is consistent with their views.

Regardless, so much for 'no new tax' Tony. He lied, just as Gillard did. You can either make excuses for both or neither. Rusted ons have trouble with that. Gillard had the one big lie, Abbott seems to be trying lots of little ones. Who's worse ?. That's a tough one.

Will we ever have politicians with the courage to tell the truth before an election ?. Probably not, which is all our fault.yes it is semantics.

Personally I don't expect them to never change their minds, circunstances do change and all that. But hypocrisy is annoying. This is a quote from Abbott criticising the previous Government when he was in Opposition.

It is an absolute principle of democracy that governments should not and must not say one thing before an election and do the opposite afterwards. Nothing could be more calculated to bring our democracy into disrepute and alienate the citizenry of Australia from their government than if governments were to establish by precedent that they could say one thing before an election and do the opposite afterwards.

If only he lived by his words !.'So we have people with mental illnesses running the country.'

Churchill famously suffered from depression, he seemed to do OK.It gets so much airtime because so many people find it appallingly cruel. There is much hypocrisy as for most that doesn't amount to anything but being 'outraged' on social media and maybe signing a petition, but 'why does it get airtime' is a pointless question. 

I'm not sure why seeing the evidence appalls you, unless you like living in ignorance. There is much suffereing in the world. Which bit of it we choose to 'care' about is an individual choice, and people shouldn't be judged on what bit they pick. You don't have to approve either, just agree to disagree. Your assertion to focus on things thst 'matter' actually means things that matter to you, an subjective, not objective measure. And saying that if we don't do it is true. And that's another way of saying 'it's OK to do bad stuff because other people will do it so I may as well too'

In short you can have your view, but to cast all those who do find the issue important as 'radicals' who are 'bizarre' and should 'get over it' is merely your opinion. Which is fine as lomg as you recognise it as such.
I too have some issues with some of the tactics used by some of the protestors, that is a different issue to the question of whether live trade should be stopped or not. Some believe that the actual transport process itself is cruel enough to justify the end of the practice.

Saying their tactics are wrong is different to saying they should 'focus efforts on issues that actually matter' and 'Get over it. Move on' from your first post. Thanks for the clarification.No sheep are not people, but people are animals.

Human animals and other animals are not equivalent, but do share many things. They can both suffer, and feel pain. I don't have a problem with killing an animal for meat, that's what animals do, but unlike other animals, we can decide how we do it.There is this idea of the 'nobleness' of farmers, I'd be interested where is started, becuase they grow food perhaps ?. This romaticised idea about the true blue salt of the earth family farmer bravely battling drought and flood for generations is completely different to the idea of any other family owned small business.

When farmers do it tough we have concerts for them and that sort of stuff. But when hundreds, even thousands, lose their jobs due to industry shutting down for example, it just seen as a tough part of modern life. Get over it, move on.

The difference intrigues me.

'Are those views morally repugnant as well?'

For me yes, as are culturally practices like cutting the genitals off little girls. I agree humans and animals aren't equivalent. But I see the difference as a matter of degree, not an absolute.

If your view is it is OK to try and impose our morality on others if human suffereing is involved, but not when animal suffereing is involved. Then fair enough, but it's not a view I share.

If you are saying that there is no right and wrong, that everything is relative and if one group of people want to slaughter another for 'cultural' reasons, for example, we should leave them be, I don't agree with that either.
Less pollution is a good thing. Yes it is, and to reduce it we need to move away from burning stuff.

No need to mention global warming because that's harder for some people to understand.It has not been 'proven' at all. You have an opinion which is fine, but it's not a fact. 

Regardless, what do you think will happen to civilisation in a few hundred years when we've burnt all the fossil fuels ?.That could make you feel frustrated and angry. There are many responses, join the Greens, complain to your MP, become a lawyer and work on their behalf, sign a petition, attend rallies, join a refugee support group, and so on. These are reasonable responses.

Going overseas to become a terrorist is ignorant and stupid. He's a young, stupid, angry idiot who may well pay for his stupidity with his life. If it comes to that hopefully he won't have killed other people first.  

I grew up in the burbs too, I enjoyed it. Space to play in the backyard, friends from school only a short bike ride away. Millions have grown up lin suburbs ike that. The point is whatever stresses and boredom and whatever else these young men face, plenty of others face the same without going down the same path. You could say the same about anone who becomes a criminal really. What makes one go down one road, when most don't, is probably unknowable.EP is suggesting that there is absolutely no sexism in Australia, it's all in the minds of those crazy (obsessed with genitals !)man-hating feminists, and as they are nuts we can completely disregard everything they say. It's a common strategy. Play the lwoman and not the ball, as it were.
It's not men v women, it's about both genders having equal opportuinity, and for them to be judged on merit, not genitals. But I expect you know that really.

If you believe that all the men that hold power in this country got there purely by merit, you're kidding yourself. Being in the right group, the right contacts, the right background is a factor.

The fact that we have only one female Minister means either men are better at these jobs than women, or for some reason women in the LiNPcan't get ahead, or don't join in the first place. 

Now I don't believe men are inherantly better than women (or vice versa) so there must be a reason behind the imbalance. What is it ?. Just a coincidence ?.Or just evening up an overall imbalance. I'm against quotas personally, but that's a different topic. Don't worry, men have ruled the world for ever, and they'll continue to do so for a while yet, and maybe this pesky feminism rubbish will go away and the natural order can be restored !.

Still if you think the imbalance on the Human Rights Commission is wrong you'd agree that the imbalance in the Cabinet is also wrong. Then you'd be consistent, unlike the hypocritical feminists. And yes there are hypocritical feminists with extreme views. But to discount feminism as a whole because of them is akin to the 'all white people are racist' or 'all Muslims hate democracy' or 'all greenies hate humans' or 'all right wingers hate poor people' or 'all Unionists are thugs' type of comments.

I didn't say it was necessarily wrong, just asked why it is so. And men (a small amount of them) have always ruled the world, what's unreasonable about that ?.No extremist lefty here Peter, and no logic to your 'logic'.so what ?. Women don't have to be brickies, men don't have to be child care workers. It's about equality of opportunity. Women who do choose to do traditional 'men's' jobs can suffer discrimination, as can men who choose to do traditional 'women's work'. That is the problem, the individual should be judged on their ability, not their gender.I agree with your last para, and I think that is how feminism has failed in a way. Instead of changing what characteristics are needed to get to the 'top', the women who do get there just demonstrate these traits themselves.

Now before anyone jumps I am not saying men as inherantly more likely to be 'charismatic opportunistic liars' or 'psychopathic silvertongued backstabbers' than women. Most men never get to the 'top' either, it's a very small number who do. An honest male politician is probably just as doomed as a female one.

But changing what one needs to be to get to the 'top' is a huge job that requires everyone to get on board, not just feminists, so I guess it's still the satus quo.
'I know just how horrible and superficial non Muslim Australians are'

How about sticking 'some' or even 'many' in there. You complain about being stereotyped and you are doing the exact same thing yourself.You've got to do both.

I broadly agree about inclusiveness. We have Muslims here amongst us, and they are not going anywhere, nor should they have to. Carrying on that 'all Muslims hate democracy, that they are all protential terrorists, or sympathetic to them' etc, is not only just plain wrong, it's stupid and counter-productive. If you believe your society hate you, you are more likely to start hating back. 

On the other hand, hoping no-one will get radicalised by eveyone being nice (even if that could happen) is wishful thinking. Some people like violence and will find an excuse to get involved with it.

At the end of the day non Muslims have to accept most Muslims aren't a problem. But Muslims have to accept that their 'image' problem isn't because non Muslims Australians are inherantly 'racist', it's because of the nutters doing terrible things in their name.

It's unfair and wrong to brand all Muslims negatively. It's also unfair and wrong to brand all white Australians 'racist', a double standard that some seem blind too. 

And I'm no Abbott fan, but 'Team Australia' which personally I find stupid (another slogan) is not divisive in the slightest, that's just a perception by those who don't like him, who imagine hidden meanings behind it. If you do value democracy, equality, the rule of law, the seperation of powers, etc, you can be on 'Team Australia'. Your race and broader culture and/or religion, is ir-relevant, that's what Abbott is saying, in his clunky, less than eloquent style.'Everyone has got to put this country, its interests, its values and its people first'

That's what he said, note values.

and 

"Overwhelmingly, our country is comprised of good decent people who want to put Australia and its people first, and it's important that individual communities can't be caricatured on the basis of a militant few."

what's wrong with that ?and yet, the sky hasn't fallen in. Ben is correct, despite the hysterics some rusted ons get into, are major Parties are quite similar, and by any objective measure we do pretty well.I'm a bit young to remember the time. But, love him or loathe him, he did seem to be a 'real' person unlike the cardboard cut-out, pollie speak, risk averse, carefully managed, boring, politicians we have today. 

I don't necessarily want 'inspiring' politicians. But ones that can answer a question and tell the truth would be nice. They don't tell the truth because they think people won't vote for them, despite the fact the so many people are fed up with their lying. I wonder if any modern politician, from a major Party will have the courage to break the mould and tell the truth.

Like "we will tax you less but there'll be less services so look after yourself" or "we beleive in more and better services so we'll be putting tax up". Imagine that !.
The better way would be for humans to realise the earth is finite and we needs to be control our breeding and look after it. Unfortunately as Brian Cox says 'The biggest danger to civilisation is human stupidity'.agreeHere's some breaking news. Some people enjoy being critical of others, always have and always will. If the criticism is petty and childish and nasty, and not in any way constructive, that indicates the person making the criticism is not worth worrying about.

This has been going on since we learned to speak, but our fancy new toys make it easier to see. The best thing to do is ignore it.exactlyI agree the medium makes no difference, it's the 'user conditions' that do. If, at the time of employment, you were told anything you wrote on the employers stationery was not private, and thaey had the 'right' to read it, then you couldn't complain if they did.The 'pause' is a slow in the increase. If you had a rapidly growing cancer tumour, then the rate of growth slowed, but did not stop, would that mean you were cured ?.As you may, or may not know, this theory has been made by Christopher Boyce, of the Falcon and the Snowman fame. Sometimes conspiracy theories have at least some truth to them. Whether this one does or not I have no idea, but I wouldn't be at all suprised if what goes on behind the scenes at the highest levels is just as strange as any movie plot. 

Since WW2 we do seem to do pretty much whatever the USA wants, that's not a secret. No harm in keeping an open mind !.Exactly.

People should be able to wear whatever they like without fear of abuse or derision. The person wearing it is just like us, not a raving fanactic who hates other members of society. We should respect their 'right' to wear it, and not get caught up in hysterical fear of a simple personal choice. Isn't that how it goes ?.

Unless you choose to wear a t-shirt with an innocuous slogan !.As a simple slogan "Australia love it or leave" is neither offensive or racist. You are assuming that the wearer has racist views based on the slogan.

That is the exact same 'logic' applied when people say 'Wearing a burqa means you don't want to be part of our society".

In if it wrong to make the second assumption, why is it right to make the first ?.So we make an exception to a sensible security arrangement, to pander to a tiny minority (hope it stays that way) who choose to wear a particular type of clothing to please their imaginary friend. Something to celebrate ?, not for me.


If there was no such thing as a burqa or niqab, the premise that in saome places your face should be uncovered for security reasons would pass un-noticed. Yet, all this fuss because of a pice of clothing. Apparently they choose to wear it, they could also choose not to wear it some places.

We supposedly live in a secular country with a seperation of Church and State. As you point out in many areas this, unfortunately, is not the case. As I said, nothing about that is a reason to celebrate for me.

I might start a Church of Nudity and see how I go walking around naked. Won't be a pretty sight though !.I'm a woman, and I don't find girlie-man particularly offensive, it's too dumb to be offensive. I do find it stupid and sexist and pointless and dumb.

But if he wants to say it, that's his business. I would much prefer politicians speak how they think, and then accept the consequences, good or bad, instead of being PC cardboard cut-outs who never say what they mean and pretend to be something other than they are.

So come on Senanator, man up ! (can I say that). If you think being 'girly' means a sort of weakness stick to your guns, be loud and proud, don't try and weasel you way out of it, wouldn't that be a bit 'girly' ?.that's because we nearly all have a strong animal instinct for survival. Itoo think in the long term if the world population was greatly reduced. I hope I'm not on the choping list, but if I was it would still be a 'win' for the planet.Are the politics in countries where voting is a choice less dumbed down ?. Then not only do you have to convince people to vote for you, you have to convince them to vote, so even more dumbing down, political ads, and simple messages I'd say.but you won't starve to death, or die from Ebola, or be kiiled for your faith/non-faith, or be forced into slavery, and so on. Everthing is relative, it can be good to remember this. And yes, I have been unemployed for a time, it's not fun.You can't hate something that you don't believe exists. You can believe whatever you like, but there is no evidence Christ was anything other than a human being, that's why you need 'faith'. If Christ comes for me I'll have some interesting questions to ask. I wonder if he'll answer before he sends me to hell.I am technically agnostic, I say atheist as people get confused by it. I quite enjoy debating the existence of God, but that's just an interesting mental exercise.

I expect most atheists would have no issue with you at all. If faith is a personal thing, between the believer and God, all good. But as history has shown, and as it continues today, religion tends to become 'organised'. And then those controlling it do try to impose there personal interpretation of their religion onto others. 

That is the problem most atheists have with religion.This article makes a good case for why religion is man made. Life is short and often cruel to the point of being unberable. So, believing in a loving God, and a wonderful 'afterlife' for you and your loved ones helps make it more bearable. That doesn't make it real though. When tragedy occurs we ask 'why', when there is no answer we make one up to make us feel better.

Atheists are often accused of arrogance. To me, believing you have an everlasting soul, that the essence of you will last forever, is far more arrogant than believing you are a bag of meat and bones that will cease to exist when you die. It's harder to accept as as well, we all have egos, that's why religion won't die.To an atheist believing in a 'god' is no different to believing in fairies and goblins, so it's hard not to ridicule it. But, I'd say most atheists don't care what people belive, they are allowed to have their 'ridiculous' beliefs, and they can ridicule atheism if they like. But organised religion tends to try and impose it's beliefs on non-believers, that's the main problem.

Working with your hands can be a form of meditation. I find working alone in the garden gives me plenty of inner peace, and gets us veggies !.Many years ago the following was put to me.

Imagine two very sick kids, close to death. One has a large family and community group praying fervently for him. The other has no-one praying for him. So if the first kid gets better and the second kid dies, how is that fair ?. God is mean if that's how it works. But if the second kid gets better, and the first one dies, then God doesn't listen to prayers. Same if they both get better, or both die. 

Conclusion - even if God exists, praying serves no purpose other than giving the person a feeling of doing something.I have wondered that too. If you truly believe that when a loved one has died that they have gone to a 'better place' and you'll be with them again when you die, why grieve ?. You could be a bit sad that you won't have their company for some years, sort of like if they'd move overseas to somewhere without phones or internet for a few years.

That may sound trite but it's true. Why the grief ?. They say 'there are no athesists in foxholes', I sometimes wonder if, deep down inside, theists really believe in their god's.so Abbott's 'shirtfront' comment is going to help ?. Come on, it was monumentally, comically stupid. Full marks, I don't think so, not even an elephant stamp.It staggers me how trusting people are of Governments. The old saying 'power corrupts' has alot of truth. Also, when a group gains more power they rarely give it freely, and when people are allowed to operate outside the law and without scutiny it becomes very easy to 'push' the boundaries. We should be very, very careful about what we let the Government do.

I know they have a job to do, and heh I want to be safe like everyone else, but the question remains 'how much freedom/privacy do we give up to remain free ?'.

As for those on the 'if you've got nothing to hide' train, if the Government wanted to stick a microphone in every house to 'protect' us would you be OK with that ?. Sure that may seem extreme, but that's the point. Where do we draw the line ?. Happily saying 'if you've got nothing to hide don't worry, just trust us' isn't good enough for me.My little life is extemely petty, but that's not the point at all. I'll try again. Do you completely trust that one of our Governments would never, ever misuse power ?. Would you be happy to have a microphone in your house hooked up to a computer that monitored them for 'key' words ?.

If 'yes' to both then fair enough. If no, then you a have a line too. 
'Green is to hate humans'

That accusation is often made, but it doesn't stack up. The Earth is the only place we've got to live, if we screw it up, we're screwed. Greenies recognise this and try and ensure the long term future of the planet for future generations. So short term pain for long term gain. You can say they are wrong or misguided, but not that they 'hate humans'.

In fact you could equally argue it's we who are using up the resources of the planet at an alarming rate, breeding like rabbits, and doing all sorts of damage for short term gain, with no idea of the long term consequences, are the ones who 'hate', or at least have no regard for humanity.Heard a report that they are finding plants are absorbing more Co2 than was previously expected, lucky us !. And even I can understand the mechanism by which the sea ice is growing.

Frankly I'm not educated enough on the topic to claimif it is, or is not real. But, I don't see that it really matters. Fossil fuels will become harder and harder to extract and more expensive. It seems much more sensible to start planning and researching on how to live without them now, then wait until the last minute.

All this endless arguing about AGW just hides the real problem. Our current world population, and our economies, and everything we do and consume relies on fossil fuels. Just marching onwards with no regard for the future seems crazy to me, even if AGW is a load of old bollocks.Jones is a smart man who knows how to play to his audience.  The full quote is ""The woman's [Gillard] off her tree and quite frankly they should shove her and Bob Brown in a chaff bag and take them as far out to sea as they can and tell them to swim home." That is not sexist.

The 'women destroying the joint' was sexist, as was the 'deliberately barren'. Calling things sexist when they are not doesn't help. Nor does tring to decided who started it, who's worse at it, etc. Just becomes a 'my teams better than your team' exercise.'Jones plays to an ignorant audience that swallows every word he says without bothering to check.'

That's what I said. I didn't say it was all right.Politicians have traditionally been men, so women will be judged differently. That's a given, whether it's a woman being an airline pilot or electrician, or a man being a stay at home Dad or mid-wife, when you challenge and change the 'norm' some people don't like it, men and women included. So those who say sexism doesn't exist are kidding themselves.

On the other hand not all nasty (and silly) insults are automatically sexist, some are just lazy use of language. Calling Abbott (or any other male pollie) a horrible bloke, or a b******d, or a mincing poodle, or a disgusting man, or a fat pig, or a soft you know what, or drawing cartoons exaggerating certain characteristics like beer guts, bushy eyebrows, budgie smugglers, etc isn't thought of as 'sexist' when it applies to men, so why is it 'sexist' when gender specific terms are applied to women ?.

I think anyone who resorts to silly, childish, cheap personal insults should just be ignored. They aren't contributing anything, they just want attention, don't give it to them. Amanda Vanstone made that point about the 'fat' jokes, those people weren't worth giving the time of day, and weren't worth getting bothered about. I think she had it right. I quite admired Gillard in her pre-coup days, but for me making her gender an issue, while she was still PM was a mistake and distraction.

I love cats, I live in the bush and we have a cat. She lives indoors with an outdoor run. She is perfectly happy and content This should be a requirement for keeping a cat anywehere. Maybe it's too late, maybe policing such a law would be impossible. But I hope somehow feral cats can be eliminated, it's terrible what impact people (and the animals they have brought with them) have done to the continent.The cat was a stray who found us as a kitten. I too thought that keeping them confined was a bit cruel, but (as far as I can tell) she doesn't mind at all. In fact, a few times the door has blown open etc, and she doesn't leave her 'territory' even though she could. As it's all she's really known I guess it just seems 'normal' to her. So I've changed my mind about it. If you really would like having a cat, maybe look into it, talk with a vet. etc.This quote is from 2011, it's brilliant.

It is an absolute principle of democracy that governments should not and must not say one thing before an election and do the opposite afterwards. Nothing could be more calculated to bring our democracy into disrepute and alienate the citizenry of Australia from their government than if governments were to establish by precedent that they could say one thing before an election and do the opposite afterwards.

Tony Abbott said it. This is the problem. Both major Parties will say just about anything to win an election. Then, if they win, it all goes belly-up, and it's the previous Government's fault. Then they wonder why they are not trusted. Add in the vested interests that control the major Parties and our democracy is crook, maybe it always has been, I don't know.

But we the voters are a large part of the problem. As often has been noted Australians want lots of services, without paying much tax. You can't have both, but both Parties pretend you can to get votes. The Libs should fess up and say 'we're cutting services, and taxing you less, so you have to rely on yourself or charity'. Labor should say 'we believe in strong safety nets so we will put up tax to pay for them'. Then, we can decide which we want Can't have both.The problem is, as you say, huge. My partner and I got out of the rat race. We both only work part-time in jobs we enjoy. We live in the country on acreage so we have plenty of time to 'smell the roses' as they say. Financially our earnings probably make us officially 'poor', but we don't need 'stuff'. We own our place, and so can live quite well on very little. (We get no welfare from the Government by the way, though we would qualify for a low income card). We are both happier than we have ever been. I have plenty of time to garden, cook, grow veggies, look after the chooks, read, bushwalk (write on The Drum !). 

But the conundrum is, is everyone lived like us, our whole economy, which we still benefit from, would collapse. Wish I knew the answer.Interesting. I hadn't thought of it quite that way, but our modern lives are not condusive to learning for learning's sake, or mental stimulation. Why are those reality TV shows popular ?. Does anyone know ?.

I must thank my parents. We had a 'debate' a dinner every day about some relevant topic of the day, and we always had books everywhere, and were encouraged to learn simply for the joy and interest of it. I think you may be onto something, we are obsessed with physical health, and 'fixing' mental health, not preventing it's onset.

PS Give up the sugar water except occassionally though, it's crap !.I'm sick of the whole 'debate'. It should be simple, people should be able to where whatever they like. But, if some places have a rule that your face should be uncovered for secutirty reasons either get rid of the rule if it's stupid, or enforce it for everyone if it is necessary. Simple, end of story.

Making exceptions for cultural reasons should not be required or requested. If, as we are told, wearing it is merely a choice, than the wearer can choose to not wear it in certain places, or not enter those places. Huge mountain out of a mole hill.You could say people who choose an extreme form of dress that cuts them off from the rest of their society are intolerant and small minded, but it wouldn't help much though would it. In fact you could say that was petty personal abuse.

Pointing out a problem is not a solution. But pointing out the cause of a problem, when it is largely ignored, is sensible.

Many of the large scale problems we face today are caused by, or made worse by, the vast numbers of humans on the planet. Our economies are based on 'endless' growth, that is a problem.The statement: 'If we find ways to save every human being that is born then the offset must be a conscious effort by us to keep our breeding in check, in balance and sustainable.' is perfectly sensible. In fact impossible to argue against I'd say, unless you think the planet is getting bigger.

I don't want to die, as an animal I have a strong survival instict, but if some (hopefully quick) deadly disease wiped me and a few more billion out, it would be good for the planet, and therefore the long term future of humanity.They are things that could happen. The following could equally happen.

1. the same
2. you have more of your own money
3. you get rid of all the stuff you have accumulated you don't really need.
4 you may buy less garden as you are getting older, or still have a big garden and smaller house
5 you meet new neighbours (may not know the old ones anyway)
6 you have a new home that's easier to manage and contain the things that are really precious, but have less junk.It's more than just on the burqa. Progressives (I'd call myself one on many issues) frequently criticise and ridicule conservative Christians on their views of things like opposing gay marriage, abortion, and euthanasia, and rightly so I'd say.

Yet Conservative religious types have alot of similarities, whatever the religion. Yet conservative Christians are fair game, conservative Muslims (or other minorities) are untouchable.

How many conservative Muslims would support gay marriage for example ?. There is a hypocrisy when you happily and enthusiastically criticise conservative Christians, yet if conservative Muslims are criticised it's automatically 'racist'.I'm amazed (well not really, but is should be amazing) that many people would seem to prefer that politicians lie.

I'm no fan of Abbott but if he finds the burqa 'confronting' and homosexuals  'threatenening' then I'd much rather he came out and said it instead of lying about it. I expect he doesn't believe in AGW really, but he hasn't had the nerve to fess up about that one. 

Abbott said he didn't personally like it, but women are free to wear it. This is the same as saying he doesn't like abortion, but women should be free to have one. There should be no criticism of these statements on a political level, he is not trying to impose his views on anyone else. 

I will be happy to see the back of Abbott, but criticism of this issue is just criticism of no real substance by people who just don't like him. So instead of saying 'we support him as he said they should not be banned', they have a fit because he told the truth instead of telling a lie about his personal view, and then go on complain about budget lies. So which is it, do you want pollies to tell the truth or not ?.

On this one little issue, what did Abbott say that was wrong ?.'I must also say that I also revile the oversexualized outfits and behaviour that some Western women display'

Ah but they have been brain washed by the evil West, whereas precluding yourself from society by covering your face is nothing more than a personal choice made freely with no influence from anyone or anything else other than the individuals personal conviction.

Hypocrisy abounds, and alot of it come from your Greens I'm afraid. I can understand 'lefites' saying it should not be banned. I can't understand them 'supporting' it, when surely they should be trying to 'liberate' their sisters and giving out free copies of The Female Eunuch instead of taking selfies with a hijab on.Yes, maybe you missed my sarcasm. I am agreeing with you. But the women defending it make the argument it is a 'free choice', they do not say that over sexualised young women are making a 'free choice'. See the hypocrisy ?.

Gillard failed because of her poor decisions, mainly the way they got rid of Rudd, then giving into the Greens on the carbon tax. She didn't fail because some Australians are sexist, sure it's a factor, but so is Abbott's religion, Turnbull's money, Shortens's Union ties and so on.

Maybe I'm way overly optimistic but I don't think Bishop would be 'electoral suicide' purely because she's female. I hope she with the help of others can put more cracks in the LNP's boys club. I expect she will, without whinging about it either. 

It was part of her problem. I think both 'opinions' are correct, 1) she made poor decsicions and performed badly 2) her failings were exaggerated because she was a woman.

Anytime, anywhere, when someone does something that hasn't been done before they come under more scrutiny. Whether it's a female fighter pilot or a stay at home Dad they are seen as 'different' and some people don't like 'difference'.

I expect many people still prefer a man leading the country, that will make it more difficult for female politcians. But unlike many of my feminist 'sisters' I expect many women still prefer a man in the top job, women can be just as 'sexist' as men.No, it's called bias. The ABC is completely one-sided in regard to 'boats', there has never been one single opinion piece on the Drum supportive of 'stopping the boats'. Given that is the policy of both major Parties, and the majority of Australians, it's peculiar to say the least.

It doesn't make any sense, and is pretty indefensible. Whether you believe in stopping the boats or not isn't the issue. The one-sidedness of how the topic is presented on the ABC is.'Stopping the boats' is a'winner', it's popular, the rights and wrongs of it are another matter. But that's not the point, as I'm sure you are aware, as you've failed to address it.'Open borders' could be called an extreme position too. But, again, that's not the point.Yes, that's the point 'every position is different'. But every position is most definately not given an airing on The Drum, only one.Why do so many people in our society suffer depression and anxiety ?. I too have suffered from it in the past, causing the loss of a twenty year career. It was a blessing in disguise in the end, I goy out of the rat race. But while I agree we need to destigmatise it, and look and how to cure it, what causes it in the first place ?.

We live in a safe, free country, hardly any of us suffer from lack of food, lack of shelter, or have live through war and/or displacement. We should be 'happy'. Instead there's this pandemic of depression and anxiety.

I think our consumeristic society is a large factor, but that's just my opinion. Is anyone looking at the fundamental causes of our malaise ?. Maybe we don't want to know the answer.The answer to your wedding veil question is 'yes'. In places where people are not allowed to enter with their faces covered that would include a bride with a veil. The general rule may be ridiculous for all I know, but allowing exceptions to our laws for cultural reasons is even more ridiculous.I don't think anyone should be able to get around a law because of a cultural, or religious reason. I guess that makes me neurotic !.I did read the article 'the answer is simple: ask women to show their faces when identification is needed.' I just disagree with it. As I said, I don't believe we should make exceptions for people based on religious or cultural reasons.I disagree. He should say all those things, if he believes them. How else can we decide who to vote for if the pollies don't tell the truth about what they believe ?. Would you prefer they lie ?.

His public resposibilites relate to the legislation he enacts, not his personal views.No it's not. Murdering someone because of their beliefs is a teeny bit different to saying you find them confronting, don't you think ?.and for better or worse she says what she thinks so we are free to agree or disagree. Most politicians don't have the nerve to say what they really think.Social cohesion, heh. I'm all for social cohesion, women who cover their face are not socially cohesive. If they choose to stick a bag on their head, fine, but they should not be excluded from the same rules that cover bike helmets, etc.

Abbott says he finds it confronting, so do I, can't I say that ?. We often complain that politicians lie all the time, should he have lied about it ?.

Covering your face is extreme, and in my view does not add 'richness' to our culture. Persoanlly, I think it's rude and ridiculous. If women choose to wear one in public, tht's their business, but I'm not required to like it, or respect it. I'll tolerate it, which should be enough. This lovey-dovey idea that we all need to like and respect each other is PC madness.

I think nudists should start walking around naked. If one's OK, why not the other ?.have you ever seen a nun with her face covered ?.then yes, they would have the same rules apply to them. Never seen one myself.'the more they differentiate themselves via clothing and codes of living the more likely they will be perceived as aliens'

People will say that's not fair, and maybe it isn't, but that's reality anywhere in the wrold.ever heard of 'when in Rome' ?. Regardless, people are still tribal in many ways and cultural norms are wide spread everywhere. If someone chooses to stray way outside culturally norms, in these examples going naked or covering their face, they will encounter negative reactions. If that's what they choose they have to put up with it. It's not right, it's not fair, but that's life.

If they are assaulted the law should protect them, but dirty looks, and rude comments, they're stuck with it. If I went around with "I'm an atheist" tattooed on my face I'd get some reaction too !. Expecting millions of people in a society to be nice is unrealistic.He said people could wear whatever they wantRubbish. You can't save people from themselves all the time. The health effects of smoking are now well known, if people choose to smoke that's their business.  

Governments 'allow' the sale of many things that cause health problems alcohol, soft drink, high fat and sugary food and so on. You may wish to live in a society where the Govenrment controls everything you ingest, I do not. 

Smokers only hurt themselves, their life, their choice.'What people want to wear is no ones business but the wearers.'

Not quite, it's illegal to walk around naked. Regardless I have encountered a few burqa weraing women, I did find it confronting, should I not be allowed to say that ?. 

Covering your face is extreme, like walking around naked. It is not a religious practice, it's a cultural one. Many cultural practices are not allowed in Australia.

Persoanlly I'm ambivalent on a ban. But I don't like the fact that people want to exclude themselves from our society by covering their face. Maybe that is their 'right', but it's my 'right' not to like it.The ABC does have a progressive bias, which is different to a left bias, but only a little bit. I love the ABC, it far superior to commercial rubbish, and far less biased as well, but it's balance could be easily improved which would snuff out much of the dirt thrown at it.

The ABC has few (any ?) Conservative voices. They have libertarians views, like the IPA, but that's different again. Personally I can't stand Conservatives, but the public broadcaster is supposed to be for everyone, whether I like them or not. 

I think the ABC should employ more Conservative voices, let them air their views and be done with it. People can agree or disagree, watch/listen or not, as they wish. Get Bolt and Alan Jones doing a double act (wonder if they'd work for less money !).

The best evidence that the ABC is bias is the feedback. If it was more in the middle their would be howls from the left of right bias, and vice versa. You don't get that. I am fairly progressive socially, I belive in gay marriage, abortion, euthanasia, legalising drugs. I don't like religion, conservativism, and so on. Most of the stuff on the ABC tallies with my views, which is 'good' for me, but for me to pretend that's the same as 'balance' would be disingenuous.examples ?.but it should 'tilt to the right on a number of occassions', that's the whole point !. And do you really want the whole panel of every Q&amp;A to be made up of people you approve of and agree with ?.Here's one. The Drum has had many, many, many opinion pieces on the boat people issue. Not one has been pro 'stop the boats'.I think we're stuffed, though I'm selfish enough to hope the world splutters along until I shuffle off. The world economy is reliant on growth of population and/or consumption. It very obviously cannot last forever, but no-one will acknowledge the fact. At some point soemthing's gotta give, and it won't be pretty. But it's probably a lesson we need to learn.Maybe not insane, definately delusional. Thousands of years ago people believed the Sun was a god, among many other things. I expect you think worshipping the Sun doesn't make sense. Modern religions are fundamentally no different. 

Popularity isn't proof. Religion has been a useful tool to explain things we can't understand, appeals to our ego's (eternal life), and can be a great way to control people. Humanity should be able to grow out of it's need for it, but it's hard to let go of the idea we'll live forever.

As for Hitler etc they didn't do away with religion, they just made themselves the 'god'. They expect to be followed without question, and those who defied them would be punished, very 'god-like'.But there is no evidence. That's why to believe in religion you need 'faith'. If god wanted us to believe in him via evidence he'd appear in the sky every day or something. So he either doesn't exist, or wants us to believe in him without evidence. The Bible, or any other religious text, isn't evidence. They are words written by people.

At best the idea of god is a theory. But religious people don't say 'god is one possible explanation for the universe, and I'll believe that one'. They say 'god created the universe' and believe it as fact.You don't need faith to be an atheist. Just be able to say "I don't know". The 'theory' that anything we can't understand, or science can't explain, means "god did it" actually helps the argument that we invented god to explain things we don't understand.

People used to believe the Sun was the wheels of a chariot being driven around the Earth by a god. Made perfect sense to them.

And if it isn't 'rational' to believe the universe made itself from nothing, it's hardly rational to believe a god made itself from nothing either.that's not correct Mitor. The Oxford definition of agnostic is

"A person who believes that nothing is known or can be known of the existence or nature of God."

It's simple to prove there isn't a tooth fairy, stick a tooth under a pillow, and wait. It's impossible to prove there is no god. As they say absence of evidence isn't evidence of absence. I am, by the literal definition, agnostic, though I say atheist as for practical purposes it makes no difference.

But to say that agnostics I having a bet each way is simply not correct, well maybe some are that's not what agnosticism means.in a very quick nutshell. Humans are pack animals, we aren't very big or strong so survive better as part of a group. It's easier to hunt in packs, protect your genes (children) in packs and so on.

Packs only work if there are 'rules', you share the food that is caught, you have one person on watch, and so on.

This is the source of our 'morality'.
