No hand out here and yes this budget, like its creators, is rotten to the core. Can we have some grown up in charge ?. DD now please.Dead right EVAN, he did say he would stop the boats. That has not happened, all he is doing is diverting them. How many we do not know because the only thing he did actually stop was oversight.

Just how he is saving lives by turning boats around and returning people to their tormentors is beyond me. Maybe you have a crystal ball and in it you can see what is actually happening in our name.

Of course we could always just trust Abbott. He would not lie to us would he?  Oops that particular boat already set sail.Noah's Ark : political partisanship is not really appropriate. I am not an Abbott supporter, in fact I despise his politics, but, on this particular issue he has acted appropriately.

You are correct about sections of the Media pushing the "great statesman" line but that is to be expected and nothing new. 

"Operation Bring them Home" is a bit over the top and is cringe worthy in its sloganeering but I suppose all military operations have a title.

The government has acted appropriately and as expected here, no more no less.Their is no connection between asylum seekers and MH17 and any attempt to conflagrate the two is simple and distasteful partisan spin. I live in the hope that conversations of this horrible act will not bend to the wants of some to promote their partisan rants but I am not confident. Lets just try to ignore the trolls and not stoop to their levels.
That's a very pertinent point Jimmy, lets not forget the horrible disaster unfolding in Gaza as we speak.

We should also take note that Russia, USA, China, Britain and France are the 5 largest exporters of weapons worldwide. Are they all responsible for how those weapons are used? 

Another point people should remember is the fact that the USA has never admitted fault or apologized for shooting down an Iranian passenger jet killing all 290 people civilians and crew in 1988 in very similar circumstances as MH17.

To put it in context, that situation was exactly the same as if the Russians had actually fired the missile that bought down MH17.

We should not forget that in war 'sh*t happens' to innocent people and its always ugly and its always criminal. I am not excusing this horrible crime but we should condemn Hamas and the Israeli's as well as other warmongers equally as we should the Americans and the Russians for their crimes."By ratifying the Refugee Convention, governments agree precisely not to treat asylum seekers as illegal," Professor McAdam said.

Professor Andreas Schloenhardt, from the University of Queensland law school took a similar view, saying "the terms 'asylum seeker' and 'illegal' should not be used together or in the same sentence".

Ellen Hansen from the Canberra office of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees told ABC Fact Check that "the term 'illegal' is not one that UNHCR uses or encourages the use of in relation to refugees or asylum-seekers arriving without a visa".

Based on the definition set out in the people smuggling protocol, people who have come to Australia without a valid visa have illegally entered the country.

That is the case even though these people have not committed any crime, nor broken any Australian or international law.

Source, ABC Fact check.

Your use of the term, like the Governments, is misleading and a strawman argument that means absolutely nothing. It is purely semantic name calling to infer these people have broken laws when in fact no laws have been broken.

Misleading and dishonest propaganda for political purposes.

Seems some can't see past their own partisan cheer squad mentality. You have nothing to offer the debate other than falsehoods so go away.
Forrest, the self righteous excuse of "any claims to asylum ended with the first country they reached." is both illogical and incorrect.

1. Under YOUR definitions, any government without a direct border with a source country would not be obliged to take any refugee's. That is not in the spirit of the UNHCR agreements we have signed.
2. The refugee camp in Malaysia, represents a safe haven and is the 'first country they have reached', therefore, under YOUR definition, they cannot claim refugee status in Australia. 
3. Once any person has escaped to a camp, country or area where they no longer are under direct threat then by YOUR definition they would be simply economic migrants and not genuine refugee's. 

Your definitions are incorrect, narrow minded and are simply convenient to justify your own selfish paranoia. Like many others you are simply ignoring the very fact that these are good people who are simply asking us for help, and we are treating them as criminals by either locking them up or turning our backs. Nothing you say can change that simple fact. Makes ya "proud" to be an Australian, doesn't it?

I am the first to admit that I have not all the answers, but at the moment, this present government, has shut down any debate and is not listening to or interested in anything anyone else has to say. 

We need a non partisan independent body that can elicit idea's in a genuine attempt to find solutions in an honest and open manner, not the secretive military farce we have at the moment. You know it, I know it and so does everyone else.  

Simply 'turning boats around' and ushering them off to 'annoy' someone else neither saves lives nor solves the problem. Its a head in the sand approach that tells the rest of the world that "I'm alright jack, stuff you".

Imagine if every country were to take that position. Just imagine.Trust must be earned. I cannot trust Morrison because he has lied in the past and continues to lie today. He is the minister in charge of a secret gulag organisation that bring misery to thousands of people. 

Open and honest policy would see open and honest debate. Not possible, it would seem, at the moment. Why? Because he see's political gain. Nothing to do with what's right, what's moral and what's best. Truly a grub.What is being done is being done to punish people for that huge crime of asking us for help. If we decide to help these people then we should actually help them. One the other hand if we decide not to help them, then don't help, but to punish desperate people for asking for help is abhorrent and wrong.

This has all happened because of partisan politics for political gain by all sides. True leadership would lead and take the politics away from the issue and appoint an independent and open body with the remit to actually come up with solutions. 

Without taking this important step then we are doom to continue and repeat these cruel actions taken in our name.

Remove the politics now Mr Abbott/Mr Shorten/Ms Milne or forever be held accountable for the distress and cruel treatment of these people.
Dear TBH, 
Abbott and Bishop initial handling of the response to the MH17 horror started well. but .......the spin doctors got to it and now, well, a media circus.  

My problem is the sabre rattling and sloganeering. "Operation Bring them Home" in the same vein as "Operation Sovereign Borders" is  simple spin doctor sloganeering designed to frame the issue as a military response to a military problem by a strong military leader playing to the public paranoia that usually follows such events. 
(Can this government do anything without a slogan?)
Its all spin, all for the 24hr media, and fits with Abbotts 'goodies and baddies' world view. He, like anyone else, knows that the identification and returning of bodies will take quite a while and has set the tone for a long and protracted display of nationalist parochialism led by the 'great leader'. Its just spin. 
Its offensive to use this disaster and the victims in this political chest beating way, but hey, what more could we expect from the same party that demonised asylum seekers with their "Children Overboard' lies, continuing this policy of dehumanising and demonising to this day, all for personal political gain.

By the way, the returning of the victims bodies and an independent international investigation were going to happen no matter the UN resolution put forward by Julie Bishop. In actual fact these things were agreed to and underway well ahead of her address to the UN. This resolution was just for show and made no difference to the outcome. It was designed for the 'huff and puff' media circus that is the UN Security Counsel.
Yank : I like everyone else grieve for the people of MH17 and their families. Without seeming insensitive, the response by Abbott has been as expected and quite simply playbook politics. Sabre rattling and chest beating.

I am waiting for a response or even a recognition of the Israeli/Palestinian conflict. The humanitarian disaster taking place in Gaza is horrendous, yet our government stays silent. It seems when a complex issue without a simplistic 'goodies and baddies' scenario confronts Abbott he is missing in action.  
We can't have it both ways Yank. A seat on the UN Security Council comes with responsibilities. War crimes are war crimes no matter their location or those committing them.Realist. Abbott has only acted as expected from his 'tea party' goodies v's baddies world perspective. A very simplistic and narrow minded view of the world. 

It should be noted that the 'goodies and baddies' in the MH17 incident are easily identified. Simplistic and easy politics followed with the obvious and predictable 'stamping of the feet' and the parochial 'sloganeering' taking place. Nothing hard there.

Whilst this simplistic and narrow minded approach, is warranted and has served him well in his response to the MH17 horror, it is the more complex issues like the Israeli/Palestinian conflict and the tensions  involving China, Japan and their neighbours, that are the true determinants of his statesmanship.

His silence on the Gaza strip horrors taking place at the moment and his bumbling efforts with his multiple new best friends in Asia condemns him as neither a statesman nor diplomat. He is much more comfortable as a sabre rattler and a blowhard.

Our concerns should surround the very fact that when situations of complexity face our PM he goes missing in action. 
Jill, we all want the perpetrators of this horrific crime bought to justice. The problem I and many others have is the premature blaming of Russia.

I and others understand that they are a prime suspect but until investigations are complete and more evidence is ascertained it is foolish and jump to conclusions. I am not defending Russia in any way, just the processes of investigation.

Abbott sabre rattling approach is warranted and Bishops UN resolution is good. I would like to hear from them on the Israeli/Palestinian crisis as well. Their silence says that they are more into "look at me" sloganeering diplomacy, al la Rudd, than they are in solutions and diplomacy.

Please do not for a second believe that the Abbott detractors are in any way being disrespectful of the victims and families of this horrendous crime. We all grieve for these people.NoGoodNamesLeft: The definition of Noeliberalism has changed over the years depending on location and decade. You are correct, Howard, Costello, Hawke and Keating can all be described as neoliberals. In the context that Alpo uses the term it is used as a derogatory term to describe elitist right wing capitalism. Also a correct usage of the word.

Alpo to save confusion its probably best if we just call them 'tea party' conservatives or neo cons which is sometimes used to describe the relatively new far right conservative 'tea party' movement in America of which it seems the present LNP leaders are aligned majorly because of their beholding to big corporate donors, elitist ideologies and ultra Christian philosophy's. Basically wealthy educated rednecks.
Spot on yank. They told us that the adults are now in charge. Its just that they omitted to tell us what type of adults they are. 

IMHO they are vindictive, xenophobic, fear mongering plutocrats or better known as the "Tea Party".

I suspect you are correct and it is all just BS spin and diversion politics.

Seriously 23 million plus people and this is the best we can do.

On, and did I mention the Budget?Harvey : Don't be too harsh on Michael, he like many others are just victims of the LNP propaganda machine.

Metadata is already collected and can already be accessed without a warrant. At the moment a request is made and complied with if data is available. Given collection and storage is just a matter of money as long as someone pays, as long as business see's a dollar in it, then, no problems.

The problem with the system as it stands is access to the data without a warrant system. The government has purposefully not addressed this problem. Obviously the security industry finds the warrant system onerous as do all coppers but civil libertarians would say an independent judicial warrant system is a must.

Since their are easy solutions to satisfy national security and civil liberty concerns, money and oversight, we must ask why?. Why the big announcement? Why start an ideological argument at all? Why not just sit down in a bipartisan way and resolve the national security and business cost issues?

No, Abbott and Co had to pick a fight. Why? To divert our attention from the horror budget by prosecuting their fear mongering agenda, creating a false sense of impending doom that only they can protect us from. 

First establish the enemy, in this case the home grown terrorist, then adopt a position you know your opponents will not support, no oversight, then paint yourself as the great white hope against this looming terror (be alert not alarmed). The other side is weak and we are strong. The Supreme Leader will protect you. Hail the Supreme Leader.

It worked for Johnny Howard and we know how much Abbott loves little Johnny. Spin, spin and more spin and people like Michael are sucked in every time. Grow up Michael, you are being played for a fool. Oh, did I mention the budget?Attacking private schools by stereotyping is in essence the same as elitism, racism, or any other ism. It is the stereotyping that develops divisions that lead to hate. Its stupid. 

I am a public school lad and I find it very hard to believe that private schools are any more a hotbed for bigots than public schools.

I am an atheist, most likely because I have always been confused by the fact that all religions teach love yet most perpetuate hate. I do not think that hate starts solely at school. I think Mr Wasim is correct when he points to our homes, our society and our media as the main influences.

Although religious intolerance is a huge problem, worldwide.John:  Mr Wakim has written a well balanced piece as to his opinions of what causes home grown Australian youth to develop a radical outlook that if gone unchecked can lead to radical acts of violence and terror. 

He, in my opinion, rightfully makes a connection between young peoples exposure to hateful racism either in the public domain, at home or on social media, and, the radicalisation of those young people.

He, in my opinion, rightfully makes a connection between the hate media and xenophobic rants both online and in the main stream as catalysts for young people to wrongly believe they do not belong to our society. It is by far more likely our young can be swayed by radical views if they feel they do not belong.

Many studies in human nature tells us that to belong and identify with your community is a very strong and natural desire of us all. These feelings of belonging or not belonging have a greater significance during adolescence.

You comment blames our multicultural society as the main problem, basically saying that certain ethnic groups are not welcome as they do not belong in our society. That is the very definition of racism.

It is exactly this type of diatribe that enables extremists to recruit young Australians telling them that they do not belong, just like you have. Xenophobia and racism has no place in our society so I suggest you take an extremely good look in the mirror mate and ask yourself "do you belong?"The nose : 

It was part of the budget cuts mate. They used up more than their quota with the four word "Operation Bring them Home" so to balance the books "Team Australia" was all we could afford.
 
Please pay attention, there is a budget emergency, isn't there?. 

It also explains why we get slogans rather than policy. All those words are just far too expensive.Dress it up all you like Lexx but it is secretive big brother style legislation. Simple as that. The American experiment has been shown to be a very ineffective program with no benefits to national security. Do your research mate and you will see that they have actually made the appropriate changes to facilitate proper legal oversight and accountability. Not really a big ask.

Neo-con means new conservative and I would suggest it is those with a guilty conscience that see's it as an insult. That guilt comes from deep down inside you where you know in your heart that this government is pandering to the xenophobic amongst us and the self realisation that you may actually be a xenophobe yourself.

Sleep well mate, we all have those feelings, its called human nature. Most of us know this and whilst useful in the dark ages, in our enlightened and educated times this type of fear and knee jerk legislation is not warranted.Hassa, The amendment to bear arms in the USA was put in place at a different time. We are living in Australia in the now, and in the now, trust in the Abbott government is, well, lets say below optimum. 

What the people of the US do is their call. I am sure they will do what suits them.

Here in Australia our problems with the budget, the environment, fairness, asylum seekers, and anti terror laws is that we have been lied too on so many fronts by this government that they have lost the ability to 'bring the people with them' on any issue.

Even if, and it is a big if, they can come up with decent policy they have reached a point where as no one will trust them. They have destroyed any good will or political credibility and thus no matter their intentions have lost the ability to effectively govern.

If Abbott does really have the best intentions for our future he would call a double dissolution. Let the people have their say on the new direction he is taking us, a direction he did not flag prior to the election, and gain a true mandate. Since that is not the case and is most unlikely then he is effectively in caretaker mode and will be until the next election, which is not good for Australian's and our governance.

This is the price paid for all those lies. Hopefully future politicians will learn from this experience. Until then we will just have to put up with the most deceitful and dishonest government in recent memory and basically nothing worthwhile will get done.GJA: Desperate times for Abbott and his mate Can-Do up here in Qld. Both reduced to spruiking their own "leadership calls" in the same week. My oh my, how the LNP spin machine is working overtime trying to dress up these swine. The dogs must be baying. Leadership contenders circling me thinks.Sidlaw: 

Your arguments are sound. Your conclusions are not so. 

Yes we do have a carbon crisis and yes we need to do something about it. The LNP is arguing for Direct Action and the majority opposing this scheme are arguing for a pricing mechanism. Its a choice. On this point the majority of economists argue that a pricing mechanism, like an ETS, is the optimum way to achieve our goals. Those like myself argue that Direct Action is by far the more expensive option and will do nothing to help those goals. Those are the choices, given the policies of the party's. Either the more expensive and ineffective Direct Action or the optimum model of the ETS.

The same circumstance exists with the 'budget emergency'. The LNP argue that a structural deficit exists in the budget. Labor argue exactly the same point, and so do the Greens. The semantic description of this structural deficit as an 'emergency' is what has been disputed. The choice made to fix this deficit is disputed. 

In fact the Labor, Greens and Pup assertion that there is no actual emergency is backed up by the fact that the LNP's first budget is in effect adding to the structural deficit whilst the narrative by Abbott (in Japan, Korea, China, Canada and the USA), Robb (in the USA) and Hockey (in Europe and New Zealand) have all described our economy as a very good strong and sound economy. The evidence suggests the language of emergency is for domestic consumption and is in fact purely confected emotive scaremongering political spin.

Since all Party's agree there is a structural deficit, it is the way in which we fix that deficit that is at issue. Labors position is to cut Corporate Welfare and to increase revenue streams through mechanism's like the means testing of the Health Insurance Rebate Scheme, the Mining Tax and the ETS. The Greens want to go further and raise high earners income tax as well as remove all Corporate Welfare, increase the Mining Tax and impose a higher price on carbon as well as increases to welfare for the poorest in our community. 

On the other side the LNP are cutting welfare to the poorest, maintaining welfare for the richest, removing revenue streams such as the Mining Tax and the Carbon Tax, whilst cutting spending to future Health, Education and Science funding as well as wedging the States into broadening and increasing the GST, oh and introducing a much maligned PPL.

It is and always has been a matter of choices. This government has chose to go down the path of austerity in attacking the poor, the disabled and the unemployed whilst splashing cash around to the corporates and higher income earners hoping for the tickle down effect to solve the structural deficit. Hoping.

They had and have choices, it is the choices made that the people will judge them by and if the polls are any indication then the people are judging them as extreme failures. Gee and I didn't even mention thAPM: "Spin doctor at large."

Abbott employs more spin doctors than anyone bar Morrison. Did you notice the latest spin. Its all a "leadership call" now. I will guarantee you hear that little beauty many, many, many, times over the next week or so.

Abbott is out their spinning his  own"leadership" skills. How does that saying go, something about self praise being no praise at all. He is sounding more and more like Kim Jong-Un every day. Next we will have a constitution amended to refer to him as the "supreme leader". . 

The government has more spin to it more than even Warney could impart on a sticky Sydney wicket. Abbott and his spin merchants are a joke. Soooooo..predictable.

How about a light hearted challenge. If I do not hear about Abbotts great leadership at least ten times in the next week, I will write something positive about our great leader, but if you hear it ten times plus you must write something negative about him. 
Well Zing you have one thing in common with Morrison at least. Neither of you bother waiting for judicial outcomes just jump to conclusions to suit your own argument. 

The most any of us can say is that the evidence at hand strongly points toward the pro-Russian separatists, but, innocent until proven guilty is a fundamental of our principles and thus should be adhered too. The allegations pointed at Putin are even less certain.

It was people like you that were prepared to hang Lindy Chamberlain. I suggest we wait for the outcome of the investigations.HPH: Its called good parenting. Give your children the facts, let them know what both sides of an argument are and then elicit feedback where the child is empowered to put forward their opinions. Child rearing 101.Zing : And I suppose that herding Aborigine's off of cliff's is not something for young ears either. My Grandson is 10 years old and he has a better grip on the nuances of the real world than you mate. 

Hollywood is make believe,  although Santa and the tooth fairy are real and thank god for Captain America. Now go to sleep little fella its time for the grown ups to talk.Brian, I understand where you are coming from mate and yes you are right. One bad apple does not ruin a crop, unless of course it is left to contaminate.

I would just like to make the point that independent observer after independent observer, doctor after doctor, psychiatrists and past employee's at these detention camps have repeatedly stated that the conditions these children are in are harmful, are cruel and are tantamount to abuse.

The only, I repeat the only, people that deny these abuses and cruelties are those with political motives. That must concern even those most partisan amongst us.

Your reference to 'abuse' seems to be restricted to the physical when in fact the majority of 'abuse' as described by those independent experts that have actually been their is mental abuse. Just as damaging as physical abuse if not more insidious.

This type of abuses is perpetrated by the system not the people working in the system. No one is attacking those working in the system, just those responsible for it. 

It also should be remembered that Scott Morrison is the legal guardian of these children and thus is responsible for their well being. He is dismally failing in his duty to these children.

Have a good day mate, I do not believe you are unfeeling on these issues and I implore you as well as everyone else here to take a good hard look at the history of this debate and ask yourself 

'Is the partisan nature of this debate responsible for unintended cruelty to children?'

and 

'Are political ego's getting in the way of solutions?

Lets remove the politics and find some solutions please.Interestingly Abetz is now backing away from the 40 applications a month crap nearly as quickly as Christopher Pyne's runaway moment in the House.

It seems there was some pushback, not from the punters who elect them, but from the Business Council of Australia who donate to them.

Just shows who is running the country doesn't it.
Yeah we get it custard, everything was honky dory under Howard and we should all rush back to the Howard era. What a load of Rubbish. 

We are all heading toward a big crash and our bus driver has his eyes on the rear view mirror.

Lets talk about now and the future eh.

"EMMA ALBERICI: I am sorry to interrupt you, but the question specifically I was saying was: will there be that many positions to apply for in a place like Tasmania, for instance, where jobs are already so sparse?

ERIC ABETZ: When jobs are sparse, it means that you've got to apply for more jobs to get a job."

This is just a rerun of the same ludicrous arguments and justifications by the same shallow twits from the Howard era. Demonize the unemployed, the disadvantaged, and the vulnerable all for the purpose of garnering votes from the growing 'what's in it for me brigade' that is the swing voter in this country. A minority that determine election outcomes. A minority that don't give a stuff about anything or anyone other than their smartphone and self indulgent lifestyle.

Those that sit on the fence and argue that politicians are all just as bad as each other because they cannot be bothered to actually read past the headlines when considering the ramifications of policy positions.

I have no problem with the true liberal, labor or green voter because at least they stand for something. Its the, 'I will vote depending on what headline I glanced at on my way past the newspaper stand this morning' brigade that gets me riled up.

When the crap hits the fan they are the first to jump on any bandwagon on the way past their front door just to complain that their smart phone or comfortable existence is not so smart or comfortable anymore.

This government of slogans and nasty rhetoric is about divide and conquer politics in their attempts in making Australia a plutocratic dictatorship and the ignorant, can't be bothered, and the bigot has become their weapon of choice to attain their ambition.

By the time our sleepy populous wakes up to this shift toward a divided country of rich and poor we will not be Australia anymore just little America.

Just waiting for the new 'workchoices' laws to be announced and the transformation is complete.

I do believe that good people from all sides are very concerned about the direction this government is taking us and like with Rudd good people will be forced to vote against their natural leanings to get rid of these nasty plutocrats.
Blzbob: Yep, happened to me to mate. Those same people usually don't believe in a minimum wage or workers rights, yet you watch the bastards squeal if their income is cut or rights stomped on.

Failed business operators blaming unions for their failures because their business relied on under the counter wages subsidized by the dole. Put out of business because they couldn't follow the rules.
 
These days you run into them on construction sites and the such. There is always at least one in every work group.

They are the mouthiest troublemakers, always wanting the union to get them more money, but never willing to fight for it, all the while sucking up to the bosses blaming everyone else for their own ineptitudes. 

They are always on the con. They usually pretend to be union members when they are not, and they always have one thing in common. They always vote liberal. Seems its the party of choice for the con artist. I wonder why.

Anyone that's worked construction for any period of time know exactly the type I am describing.Ah yes the old kick them us the bum routine to get them off the couch and out looking for work. The whole premise of your argument Peter is to say its not designed to punish the unemployed but instead to punish the dole bludgers. Just how you make that distinction is, well, unknown.

The old I'm a lifter and your a leaner diatribe. Circumstances change mate, just ask the people of Alcoa in Geelong. I suppose you can always put on your boots and line up to kick them in the butt for their obvious bludging ways.

You have fallen for that tried and true tradition of stereotyping the unemployed as bludgers when in fact the vast majority are actually out there looking for work. You solution is to aim policy at the few rather than the many and then fool yourself into believing this will magically solve the growing unemployment problem.

Way to go Pete.Wow TC :

A West Australian lambasting Labor stating "They behaved unethically for political advantage and have sought to cover it up."

You are right of course but the irony is delicious. Troy Buswell ring any bells.

I originally thought we were on the right track with the minority government of Julia Gillard. More diverse opinions, better outcomes. Oh I can hear the cat calls now. I have now had a change of mind. Like Latham, I wrongly thought that the parliament was broke, when if fact its the parties that are broke.

The party structures do not allow for diversity of opinion within the party to be aired in public. Many good or bad idea's and may good or bad amendments do not get put to the people for public discussion. 

Party politicians have to toe the line and show solidarity at all costs and thus many do not actually believe in what their party is doing either in government or opposition. 

This situation leads us to a position of dictatorship within the party structure where as idea's like the Paid Parental Leave become party policy even though, I suspect, the majority of the LNP MP's do not agree with it.

We saw the same with the Rudd and Gillard governments where a small select group controlled the party narrative and thus became less representative of the party views. The same has happened with this Abbott government.

All voting in the parliament should be by secret ballot similar to what has been forced on the unions. Its more democratic that way. An MP's vote can be truly be representative of his/her electorate without fear of retribution.

I am always amazed by the concept of the need for permission from the leader of a party to vote by ones conscience. That in itself restricts an MP's ability to represent his/her particular community. Should not all votes be a matter of conscience.

As it stands, at the moment, it is easier for a party to be corrupted. A donor for example need only to target a few individuals, rather that a diverse majority. If you think that's a bit of a stretch then you have not really been paying attention to the ICAC inquiry in NSW. 

My point being if it is good policy it will get the votes, if its a dogs breakfast then it will deservedly be rejected. Is that not how our democracy was designed to work. 

I personally believe parliamentary secret ballots would allow for better policy outcomes and we do not require a dismantling of our democratic system to achieve this. Really its a minor change in the way the parliamentary vote is performed.

We are being governed by less than a handful of individuals no matter which party is in power. 

Of course convincing that dozen or so individuals who combined have full control and power over political parties is the hard part.
 
Just an idea.Orange fox : I agree with your sentiment. You are right to point out that corruption is much easier for large donors when they only have to target a select few.

We must be careful not to throw out the baby with the bath water though.
 
I think the good thing about party's is that they allow for the development of consistent and compatible policies rather than a multidirectional mismatched approach we see in other governments around the world. 

This system has served us well in the past. I think the difference between the modern parliament and past parliaments is the rise of the career politician.

Principles and ethics are being compromised for future personal ambitions where as once upon a time politicians would quit a party and go back to their previous employment. This is not an option for the career politician. 

My solution would be to have secret ballots for all voting in both houses.

It would give the balance of power back to the majority of MP's rather than the minority leadership team within a party. 

It would not involve too much of a change to the present system and allow for MP's to disagree with policy positions they think are not palatable to their electorate without the accusations of traitor or the personal attacks from their own side of the house, those opposite or the media.

Any donor would find it unpalatable to buy votes if they are uncertain of which way each politician actually voted. They would never know if they were being taken for a ride or not. Yes they can lobby for debating positions but they could never be too sure of voting outcomes, removing some of the incentives for corruption.

I think we are on the same page. I also think secret ballots are an easily implemented solution.

Not that I expect our politicians would ever listen to either of us. After all what would the plebs know.Septic the Sceptic: Oh dear, you have just repeated the Abetz mantra, feel good words that mean absolutely nothing.

Lets examine

1. Learn to interact with real people  -  I guess their friends and families, and every one they talk to are not actually real people. 
2. Get involved in the community  -  not only are they not interacting with real people those interactions are not happening in a community.
3. Looks good on the CV  -  I suppose employers jump up and down with excitement when they see "work for the dole (wfd)" on a resume. Consider wfd is compulsory it gives no indication as to work ethic, experience, or ability. Most wfd recipients will tell you it is better to say you have been on an extended holiday to fill gaps in your CV than it is to say you have been on a wfd program because of the negative assumptions connected with such programs.
4. improves health  -  Yep, its got to doesn't it, after all those bloody dole bludgers just sit on the couch all day smoking pot and playing x-box don't they. Nothing stereotypical about that is there.

The problem with the Abetz mantra is that he like you assume that All people on the dole are bludging no hopers that don't want jobs and need a good kick up the bum to get them motivated.

That assumption may be correct for a very small minority but it totally misrepresents the vast majority.

Like I said, empty feel good statements that mean absolutely nothing.

I would be happier if it was a 'train for the dole' program that had a focus of genuine training with genuine outcomes. Not the hide these people behind the back shed mentality of Abetz and his Party.
Not a bad part solution Edward but in reality train for the dole is a better concept and yes a lift in the benefit as a 'carrot' at the end of the stick for participants. 

The problem with work for the dole programs are the fact that the work they do is meaningless and results in no extra useful skills to present to an employer. It also comes with the misconceptions and negative assumptions by employers and the community at large that work for the dole recipients are long term bludgers not worthy of a real job. 

These wrong assumption are being supported by the continued demonization of the unemployed by people like Eric Abetz and co. These people have been painted as a blight on our society when in actual fact they can be better described as an unrealised asset.

Interestingly the LNP approach is for the States to sell assets to provide infrastructure jobs. Whilst that may be the case for a short term fix but eventually the states will run out of assets and then what?

The better solution is for a review of the revenue stream looking at negative gearing for business, tax rorts, superannuation tax avoidance and a better return to government from our Resource and Financial Sectors. 

The many billions, and it is many billions, from this increased revenue can be spent on infrastructure jobs sustained long into the future.

More people in work, more tax receipts, less welfare and more ability to pay off our debt and balance the budget.IanM : Your wonderful little NSW utopia is in fact the exception to the what happened all over the country during Howards work for the dole programs.

These programs were studied endlessly with the consensus being that they delivered nothing of what you suggest. A little research will show you that I am not misrepresenting the facts here, and the same research tells me that you are maybe stretching the truth a little.

Tasmania has had work for the dole for many years and just look at how that has turned out. Highest unemployment rate in the country. 

No work for the dole program can ever deliver an increase in available jobs which is what is needed.

It is lazy politics demonizing the unemployed labelling them all dole bludgers to pander to the bigoted and uninformed swing voter and to reinforce the lifters/leaners crap.

Invent a problem, the unemployed are all lazy bludgers, invent a solution, kick them up the bum and make them work ready when in fact the real problem is quite simply no enough jobs.Spot on aelious. What else could we expect when our MSM private sectors is dominated by Plutocrats/Oligarchs from the good old US of A.

Goodies v Baddies, its ridiculous just how biased the fourth estate has become, but WHY?

Warmongering for financial gain. Psuedo-science for financial gain. Political interference and bias for financial gain.

The common factor is obvious, its all about the money.

You need look no further than our Budget, our Foreign Policy, our Financial markets, our Resources  and Communications Sectors to see examples of public policy development being outsource to the big end of town foreign investors. 

Never mind the 'age of entitlement' crap, it has fast become the 'age of the Plutocrats/Oligarchs' where public monies are syphoned off by greedy and corrupt psychopaths sanctioned by our so called political leaders for their own personal gains.

This particular version of the LNP in particularly bad and can only be described as a kleptocracy.

Definition : Kleptocracy, alternatively cleptocracy or kleptarchy, is a form of political and government corruption where the government exists to increase the personal wealth and political power of its officials and the ruling class at the expense of the wider population, often with pretence of open and honest service delivery.

I challenge anyone to find a more apt description of the current LNP governments, state or federal. 

The yank has made a salient point here. Russia could have at many stages joined or joined with the European Union as a powerful and influential player on the world stage with cooperative economic outcomes. Under Putin it elected not to and instead chose to bolster its Super Power status.

We can only crystal ball gaze as to the outcome if  Mother Russia had taken this step. What others would have done in the same position would only be conjecture as well.

What we do know is that there is now a very serious divide on the continent that is all about power and ego's with very little concern for what is actually the best outcome for the people of the region.

We should take note of this and keep in mind that when ever and where ever you have ego driven politics trouble will most definitely follow at the expense of civilian populations. 

Luckily we live in a free society that allows us as the people to call out and expose the never ending conga line of ego driven politicians for what they actually are without fear of persecution and violence. Once exposed they do not last long in our society. 

I say luckily but I do think on this point we make our own luck. I cannot fathom the very fact that good people worldwide do not or cannot seem to band together for a better society without endless persecution and violence.

I consider myself lucky to be an Australian and feel just as lucky to have friends like the Poms and the Yanks. Imagine a world without a democratic superpower. Dark ages anyone.Seems the authors here got sucked into the Murdoch led spin that dominated the press gallery for a couple of days about Abbott being some sort of great statesman. 

I think the total surprise felt by all that he didn't stuff up for a couple of days gave Murdoch media hope that maybe he would actually get something right.  

They were wrong. Operation 'Bring them Home' put paid to any such claims. The LNP spin machine couldn't help themselves with a shallow and emotive three word slogan so Abbott can fill the airways with endless repetition. A constant reminder for him to stay on message. No change here. 

They then followed up with their ludicrous announcement of forcing the unemployed to apply for one job in the morning and another in the afternoon to justify their benefit. Another own goal if ever there was.

George Brandis has been out today telling us he is going make changes to terrorist legislation to include 'general terrorism' whatever that is. Just who will decide who are 'general terrorists' and how they are defined is, well, a secret. No need for specifics just an accusation from an undisclosed source. Isn't that the same style intelligence that gave us the WMD lies that led to our involvement in a protracted and ongoing WAR. Does anyone remember a Gold Coast doctor called Haneef.

They are also proposing changes to allowing ASIO carte blanche phone tapping abilities. Sounds good except for one little question, just where is the oversight, oops must be operational matters, just trust us I here him say. I suppose George will judge 'who we will listen to and under what circumstances we will do it'.

Correct me if I am wrong but isn't that what Snowden uncovered in the US to the shock and disbelief of its citizens. No that couldn't possibly be happening they said, only to find out it was and those in power had abused their positions and the trust of the American people. Oh shock horror, a major investigation and changes to legislation to include oversight.

No couldn't happen here could it. Not in Australia, surely not. Well in fact yes Brandis wants to entrench this secretive practice into legislation in Australia.

Can anyone please tell me what this lot actually stands for other than lining the pockets of their foreign investor mates at the expense of the Australian economy and spreading fear and xenophobia.

The old ABC is biased line is just a load of rubbish. If people like you would actually have a look at the facts, the contributors of articles and opinions at the ABC are varied and gives all sides a voice. The IPA, BCA, Environmentalists, Left wingers, Right wingers and Independents, Economists, Politicians and so on all get a run. 

The posts by observers like you or me are not controlled by the ABC. If those observers, seem to be left leaning to you, that is because those peoples views are probably left of your views rather than left of centre.

The ABC is balanced and should not and cannot be held accountable for their audience leanings, either left or right, up or down, centre or fringe. They publish all views within the rules set down by the moderator, whether you agree with those views or not is not their consideration.

You are correct that we all pay for the ABC, yet you only want views compatible with yours represented. IMHO its only ever the far right wingers that complain about the perceived ABC bias. The fringe dwellers and paid spin doctors. Could it possibly be that you are wrong in your assumption that your side are the 'suppository's of all wisdom.'( Sorry but its just as funny now as it was when Abbot said it.) Could it possible be that others may be right. Not possible I hear you say.

Whenever I, or people from the left of your views, not necessary the left of centre, disagree with what is published on the ABC, and that is many times, you never see them complaining about bias on the ABC they usually point to their perceived views of the bias of the author. They accept the author is not the ABC. 

There is a saying that goes something like this.

"Only a fool and a liar will say they know everything. A fool because he actually thinks he knows everything and a liar because he knows he can not possibly know everything."

Its worth considering don't you think?Bipartisanship does not mean what you think in this situation. Let me use an analogy to explain.

All players on a cricket team have the same objective and they all back any call the captain makes. It does not however mean that a different captain would not captain the team in a different way, with full support from the same players.

True bipartisanship would be for all players to be involved in the decision making process. This is not the case here.

It is only logical to assume that Labor would handle this situation differently, no doubt with bipartisan support.
...and true to form Ben another diversion. MH17 and foreign policy mate, please keep up.v:
an excellent summation of the situation we now face. Well said.

At least Abbott has pulled his head in a bit and stopped sabre rattling. We can only hold our breath and hope our people on the ground over there do not become 'collateral damage'.

Bring them Home safe, Mr Abbott.TGU  Its a bit early for any congratulatory speeches either on the boats issue or the MH17 tragedy.

I have no doubt that Abbott has already prepared his speech for his own 'Mission Accomplished' moment.

The real issue here is the safety of our people on the ground in Ukraine. I can't help feeling our government is more interested in slogans and pressers than the lives of those sent into a war zone.Very true maya, as soon as an issue becomes more complex than goodies v's baddies Abbott goes missing in action.

Abbott takes no responsibility for his actions or his rhetoric and sets others up as fall guys for his failures.

Hockey has been deserted and isolated as the fall guy for PPL and the Budget, Lt Campbell and Morrison for cruel Asylum Seeker policies and Angus Houston for the MH370 and MH17 tragedies.

He is not a leaders bootlaces let alone the great statesman the Murdoch media wants us to believe.

He is a joke, I just hope his eagerness for good press and lack of ability to think through complex issues will not be responsible for the death of any of our good people on the ground in the Ukraine.
Well said Dan. Some people simply can't get past their cold war rhetoric. 

To paraphrase Chaz :

"The Russians are Baddies because Hollywood told me. Anyone who disagree's with me must be pro Russian. Look out for those 'reds under your beds' people because the Commies are taking over the world".

Chaz, its 2014, not 1963, the world has moved on, maybe, just maybe, its about time you did to.GRF: "...the compliant left", just where on earth do nutters like you sprout. 

For god sakes this is not a left/right issue, it a right/wrong issue. Its an issue about religious fanatics and how they are brain washing and recruitment young people in Australia using modern social media platforms.  

Your stereotyping of all Islamic peoples as murderers because their religion, according to you, instruct them to, kill all the infidels is bigotry in its most vile form.

I can assure you that I am what you would consider from the left and I am in no way compliant to the views or actions of religious nutters either Islamic, or Christian, or any other nonsensical make believe faith driven club.

The only solution is Christianity, what a load of tosh. Dream on mate and wake up, Islam, Judaism and Christianity are all just different versions of the same crap. The same roots all believing in their own preferred prophets because some twit told them to and what's so alarming is that it is all just a load of rubbish.

Let them all go and don't let them back, if they are that deluded then they are beyond help, just like GRF here. 

 

TGU, I was waiting for someone to actually get around to a proper solution to the problem and finally someone has hit the nail on the head. Just execute them. 

I am serious. Is there anyone out there that believes that this fanatical psychopath posing with decapitated heads and bragging about his barbaric exploits has a right to live?. When he became an animal then he relinquished that right.

Let him come back to Australia, grab him at the airport and take this animal out into the desert and put him down. Let the crows have the body.

If you want to satisfy your moral outrage then yes by all means have a trial, but if found to have committed crimes against humanity then boom, kill the bastard.

We have over 7 billion people on this planet. Do we really need people like this. Culling the animals amongst us makes sense. Martin Bryant, and that other animal that raped and killed Jill Meagher are other prime candidates. Bring back the death penalty and use it.

Come on people, you know I am right, while we are there save some bullets for all the fanatical religious nutters in our society that preach hate and violence, no matter their confected faith.How to get to surplus? Well one thing is for certain Maynard, cutting revenue by cutting the Mining Tax and the Carbon Tax plus spending $5.5 billion on Paid Parental Leave  and $2.5 billion on Direct Action is not the way.

This government has been LYING to us all about a 'budget emergency' and 'debt and deficit disaster'. Firstly we had Tony Abbott then Andrew Robb and now Joe Hockey, all out there, telling the world, just how good our economy actually is thanks to the Hawke, Keating, Howard, Rudd, and Gillard governments. Credit where credit is due.

Here is just 2 quotes Joe made just a few days ago whilst in New Zealand when asked directly about a budget emergency.

"There's no crisis at ALL in the Australian economy,"

and

"The Australian economy is NOT in trouble,"

The 'budget emergency' and "debt and deficit disaster" is pure spin, in other words LIES, just another slogan from the empty policy void that is this particular version of the LNP for domestic consumption as justification for a horrible budget.

Yes, lets work towards surplus, there are many choices for government here. There is no justification for these austerity measures attacking the poor, the unemployed and the disabled. The commission of audit conveniently looked at spending without giving consideration to revenue. How stupid was that. 

A truly grown up government would look at both sides of the equation and make decisions based on balance. This government has choices but elects, yes chooses to attack those most vulnerable amongst us. Tax avoidance and big business rorts as well as a fair value share for our resources are examples that could have been addressed, but were not. 

This budget is ideologically driven to satisfy the big money donors coming out of the US tea party plutocratic fringe.

You should be absolutely livid at the LIES and misinformation campaign that fooled you into believing that there is an emergency requiring mean and nasty policies to fix. It was, and is, all lies. 

There is an old saying Maynard.

Fool me once, shame on you.
Fool me twice, shame on me.

It is up to you whether or not you will be fooled again. I truly hope not.Division is death is the political mantra when in fact division within a party represents a greater diversity of views and idea's. MP's are elected to represent each individual electorate. It is beyond belief and reason to expect all electorates to represent the same views. 

Labor were lambasted during the last parliament for having diverse opinions and disagreements on policy and leadership, yet this diversity is a far more democratic situation than the dictatorial regime LNP.

If Australians want a true democracy they have to learn to accept diversity of opinion on the government benches. Disagreements on the benches are a good sign of democracy at work as long as those that represent the minority view respect the majority decision.

The fact, that in both camps, crossing the floor of the house is seen as traitorous and deserving of expulsion from the party is a blight on our politicians and our party system.

You are right to say the that we need more independents simply because of the lack of backbone displayed by elected party members.

As far as the unemployed are concerned they have always suffered worse under a LNP government. Unfortunately the move to the right by both parties have left them without much hope of a voice in our system. Its quite staggering to think that the Greens are the last bastions of defence of a decent social welfare system in this country.

Labor needs to move back to its centre left policies and the Liberals can go and jump. They have become a bunch of nasty lying plutocratic psychopaths without empathy or social conscience.

The sooner this version of the LNP are removed the better.

Spot on John51 :

Just an idea for those unemployed. Please all of you apply for a job as a spin doctor for your local Liberal member, its the biggest growth industry in the country and obviously from the crap we have been getting no skills are required just pipe dreams and loony idea's. 

Flood them with 40 applications a month and see how they like to deal with what the local corner store in any country town has to.

Take it from me, it is very depressing to continuously have to say 'sorry no jobs available' to obviously good honest people. I can only imagine how soul destroying it must be to be on the receiving end 40 times a month. 

Just how out of touch can a government be? Please remind me again how Abbotts daughters gained employment. Oh that's right on merit?
Voyage. IMHO you are spot on. I came to the same conclusion.

If we have learnt anything about Abbott over the past few years it is that nothing is sacrosanct when it comes to sloganeering for personal political gain.

The continued demonising of Asylum Seekers, the jibes at Julia Gillard concerning her fathers passing, the vote for me because I have sexy daughters routine, and now this 'Operation Bring them Home' says to me that we have a PM who will use anyone and any situation for his own ambitions.

It seems his, and his minders, first and foremost thoughts are based on spin to support his election chances, nothing more nothing less. A true, what is in it for me, political mercenary.

On the MH17 horror, he jumped at the chance to define the 'goodies and baddies' and then sabre rattled using our collective national grief and base emotions in his LNP, lets follow what America does because we don't know what to do, foreign policy agenda  

Once the issues become complex he will disappear from the stage and hide behind a fall guy mouthpiece as he has done with the MH370 search and the asylum seeker issue.

The Murdoch Press are eagerly pushing the line that he has proved to be a 'great statesman', when in fact nothing can be further from the truth. Sabre rattling and sloganeering may convince the 'tea party' fanatics and the paranoid amongst our domestic population but is held in little regard on the international stage.

Jacquie Lambie (not the sharpest tool in the shed) describes Abbott as a psychopath. His actions and his mercenary ways do suggest she is right.

Scientific America says psychopaths are almost always rational. They are well that their ill-advised or illegal actions are wrong in the eyes of society but shrug off these concerns with startling nonchalance. They display interpersonal deficits such as grandiosity, arrogance and deceitfulness and show a lack of guilt and empathy. Describes Abbott to a tee.

So much for Adults in charge. 
Did you not read the article harry. Once again we find LNP spin merchants not bothering with the facts just spinning ideology which has proven to be flawed. Just where has the reduction in investment you talk of taken place?. Record outputs and continued massive profit by the industry prove your claims to be false. You should go back to the water cooler and discuss your next spin attack because your post is an embarrassment. 

Oversupply is and always has been a problem in the Australian mining industry because sustainability runs a poor second to the short term profit mentality of overseas investors. That's how the industry works. Invest, reap and pillage, move on to the next investment. I have worked in the mining industry all my life and anyone with any knowledge of the industry will tell you, no matter how productive employee's are, no matter how efficient the process, oversupplying a market, like all markets, causes the majority of closures.

The mining industry should be concentrating on opening up new markets, India for example, rather than writing 'self interest' policy for our, I repeat OUR government. 
  
Harry. I read the article. Did you? The crux of the article is that the demand for iron ore is not as strong as it was resulting in a lower price per tonne as expressed in the authors words...

"They now are in the process of churning out ever greater volumes to make up for lower prices, a strategy that only serves to further depress prices, just as demand growth in China has slowed."

and

"At some stage, the pressures will become too much to bear. There will be mine closures and corporate collapses...."

The point being it is no use opening new iron ore projects if the market is already saturated, a point investors are quite savvy too. The MRRT only kicks in after a substantial profit margin is realised. Whilst a small contributing factor, it is, by no means the determining factor for new investment. 

The MRRT does not and never has been responsible for investment strategies. Whether their is enough market demand, both present and future, at a  profitable price is the determining factor. An investment needs to be first profitable before any dreams of super profits are realised. Asking investors to share in the super profits if they come does not reduce normal profit levels. 

If the market becomes saturated, which is what the author suggests has already happened then the price plummets and many enterprises become non profitable as has been the case in the past with Tin, Zinc, Silver, Copper, etc... and to a certain extent Gold. (It should be noted that once a project is not super profitable the MRRT is zero). 

An oversupplying strategy causes Mine closures and community disruptions that requires Government money for retraining and relocation of workforces. This has become the norm for mining communities throughout Australia. 

Its a balancing act that requires a sometimes lower level of production which sustains a higher demand (price) over a longer period that is best for a sustainable industry, smoothing out he ups and downs.

Simply building more and more mines without giving consideration to the long term effects of such a strategy is a simplistic and stupid approach. It will bite us on the bum in both iron ore and coal well into the future and is poor planning and just represents pandering to the short term profiteering of multinationals.  

Other industries have suffered similar problems, just look at what happened with wool in the late 70's.

Like I said you should actually read the article before sprouting your partisan spin.You have hit the nail on the head Rick. Massive burden and raises no money at the same time. An oxymoronic argument if ever their was one.

Its the same as the LNP's whole budget position. They tell us we have a budget emergency yet they massively reduce the revenue stream with the repealing of the MRRT and price on carbon and increase spending by $5.5billion on a paid parental leave scheme no one likes. Beggars belief.

The proposed PPL scheme has its own oxymoronic bits. Mums, but not dads get it. It is designed to financially help with the bills so mum can spend time at home with bub yet dad time, well that's unimportant. Its also designed to give the most assistance to those who require the least assistance. Another oxymoronic position. 

Their carbon pricing policy is another. Climate change so we are meant to believe is not a problem, its crap, yet we will spend $2.5billion on direct action to combat climate change. 

The carbon tax was the cause of massive price rises, yet now its gone, we will only see small price falls, if any.

Now they want dole recipients to apply for jobs that don't exist or otherwise if you have no money and can't get a job simply move interstate. 

On and on it goes. Seems we are being governed by an (oxy)moronic government led by morons.Keep deluding yourself harry. We just keep building mines eh. Don't bother opening new markets. If we built it the they will come I here him say. Can you no get the fact that China's growth is easing. LNP spin with absolutely no thought to the future.

The minerals are managed by the governments of Australia on behalf of the people of Australia, therefore it is only right the people benefit from its exploitation. We are now moving into the production stage therefore it is only right we all share in the profits after fair compensation for the investment. That share is determined by our government, as it should be and not the boards of foreign companies.

I have my doubts that the LNP are actually operating in Australia's best interest on this matter. The question that must be asked and answered is whether the LNP have sold us out for political donations and political campaigning. Its a serious question and I must say the suspicion is warranted.

To claim a budget emergency and then to reduce a valid and substantial revenue stream is an illogical position. Logic tells us that something else is at play. Either we have a budget emergency and we need the revenue, or, we have no emergency and the austerity measures are unjustified. Either way someone is telling porkies.Realist, anything but I say. So under your moral righteousness, Abbots pledge to support Turnbull and his ETS when Turnbull was leader of the liberals was a lie. 

Julia Gillards asylum policy was the closest we have had to a bipartisan approach adopting some of the LNP policies as well as Labors. Rudd moved to the inhumane far right position when he regained office.

Past history, what about now. The present government led by Abbot LIED, yes LIED through his teeth to get elected. The fact that an article is written to say he has kept more promises than those he has broken is like saying the jewel thief left more jewellery in the shop than he stole. Its a straw man argument.

The lies about the effects of the Carbon Tax, the unity ticket promise on the Gonski reforms, changes to pensions, cuts to the ABC and SBS, the NDIS delays, no new taxes and trying to force states into GST increases are all very concerning amongst others things but the really big lies have been about transparency and accountability.

Grown ups in charge, bulldust, a true realist could only conclude they have LIED to by a government of LIARS.   


Ian has hit the nail on the head. The budget was all about choices and this government made their choices. 

It has been no secret that superannuation rorts that favour those with the most are costing the budget bottom line billions. 

It has been no secret that Australian's are not getting a fair share of the riches from our mining resources. 

It has been no secret that the financial advice industry preferences the banks at the expense of their customers. 

It has been no secret that revenue, and not spending, is responsible for the structural deficit in our budget.

Yet we have an ideologically driven few controlling government from the right fringes of the political spectrum feeding and favouring the big end of town economy at the expense of all others.

The balance has shifted to the far right wing of the political spectrum, which in my view is just as bad as the far left wing.

An adjustment here and an adjustment there to this budget does not cut it. Balance is the key yet we see none from our government. Let us not be fooled, they tell us they have no choice but that is their biggest lie, they do have choices and the present path is this governments choice.I agree yank, sanctions are preferred over war, although very long term and slow working. This article visits the proposition that when forced into a corner rogue states tend to react badly, similar to Germany's aggressive reactions in the lead up to WW2. 

I also think the elephant in the room is the inability of the UN to perform as a world arbiter. In my opinion removal of veto powers, even if that means some sort of gerrymander as per population, would give the UN the ability to be critical of and even act against the super powers. 

IMHO a truly democratic UN by no means should replace sanctions but could achieve much more as to real time solutions than it presently does. The obvious problem is to get those with disproportionate power in the UN to give up some of their powers and yes it is the equivalent of pushing s#@t uphill.I somewhat agree c.jane. I would also prefer an option of atheist teachings. I would have liked my children to have the choice of studying why religion is a crock and why so many people are able to be brainwashed and bullied into believing such crap.

Maybe these teachings could prevent suicide bombers and Christian child molesters just for a start. It could teach our children to be aware and suspicious of those that say they do things in the name of their make believe gods. It would teach our children to have a healthy scepticism rather than an unhealthy fanaticism. 

We could call the class, Selective Realism Education.graazt : "Hmm, you'd want to balance out the good stuff with some of atheism's worse aspects though or you'd just as bad as the evangelical Christians"

I simply want my children to do 'good stuff', not because they have been blackmailed into doing so with threats of eternal damnation but because they want to because it is the right thing to do.

I also want them to learn about how fanatical religious crusaders have been able to brainwash masses of good people into doing not so good things in the name of religion. I hope that my own children would have a healthy scepticism toward any such approaches.  

As far as 'atheism's worse aspects', are you suggesting that atheist's are not capable of 'good stuff' because they don't believe in an imaginary deity?

That sound more like evangelism to me.

Should I remind you that much 'bad stuff' has been committed by the religious amongst us usually in the name of their religion.

It has always amazed me that most atheist's I know actually live a more compassionate and peaceful life than those of faith. Maybe atheist have not the convenient ability to be forgiven for their sins by some imaginary entity. Maybe they actually take responsibility for their own failings.

I don't dislike religious people, just don't force their beliefs on me or my children.
Lambie was commenting about her own personal life in a tongue in cheek interview. That's a hell of a difference form the sexist attacks by the rabid right on Julia Gillard.

I also think you will find that the majority of those offended by Abbotts many so called sexist moments are much the same crowd as those complaining about Lambie now.

The obvious exceptions being those who feign offence for partisan reasons, mainly this time from the rabid right, those very same people who cheered Abbott on when standing in front of 'Ditch the Witch' signs.

Hypocrisy it would seem is not limited to one section of our society.Just pray tell what is wrong with you people. Its the Commonwealth Games, with the emphasis on the Games. Its a sporting competition, nothing more nothing less. Little athletics for grown ups. 

If you cannot just enjoy and celebrate these wonderful athletes and their obvious devotion to their pursuits in the spirit of friendly competition and striving for their best then you really are a sad sack and need to take a look at your lack of perspective.

Who cares if it the Olympics or Little Athletics it simply enjoyable and uplifting for those that value endeavour ahead of results. 

I do not care if I come last as long as I have given my best. If my best is not good enough then so be it, I enjoyed the journey and rejoice in the success of others. That is the spirit of any game.

Its all about striving to be the best you can, not being what everyone else wants you to be. Its a game. Enjoy and rejoice in its simplicity.Ffejjie : As well as the CEO's and Board of Directors being punished (I do like AWF's idea's on that front), the regulator should also be investigated and answer for any failings on their part. After all most corporate collapses can be traced to illegal practices that have previously been identified to the regulator and the regulator has not acted.

Family trusts and all family assets as well as transfers of money from one entity to another should be open to those seeking redemption as well. No more legally tricky hidey holes for assets. Close the loopholes. Alan Bond ring a bell.
Oh Lordy indeed. You cannot seriously call for a Royal Commission into asylum seeker issues without including Children Overboard, and Operation Sovereign Borders.  I agree a RC into the asylum seeker issues going back to Howard is probably necessary so as to debunk the lies and the mismanagement of this divisive issue by all parties. Only then can we clear the air and find a non partisan solution.

IMHO the more important RC needed is whether our great country was involved in the most destructive war since WW2 on the basis of lies told to us by the Howard government and whilst we are there we should look at how and why that same Howard government actually supported the enemy, Saddam Hussein to the tune of 400 plus million dollars in a bribe for oil. Does that not constitute treason?

I think it is very important to ask the question at a RC as to whether our present federal government is legitimate. If the LNP were elected using tainted money garnered from nationally organised corrupt and criminal fund raising practices then, are they legitimate? 

Like I said Royal Commissions now please. 

Peter of Melbourne. Just who exactly is being the hypocrite here. 

1. Do you believe in Human induced climate change, Y/N

If yes then it is hypocritical to say every other country should address their emissions before we consider addressing ours. Self serving hypocrisy at it most obvious. By the way England has a similar % of emissions as us. It is also hypocritical to say its all China's fault for burning that coal we sell them.

If no then it is hypocritical to say we would do anything at all because every other country would be wrong according to you. The same for direct action policies, if you don't believe why bother spending billions for no reason. Hypocrisy 101.

I have no time for hypocrites or climate technology luddites either.Evan and Realist, lets look at what a real scientist says. Professor Stephen Hawking articulates his view quite clearly in his following statement:-.

?As scientists, we understand the dangers of nuclear weapons and their devastating effects, and we are learning how human activities and technologies are affecting climate systems in ways that may forever change life on Earth. As citizens of the world, we have a duty to alert the public to the unnecessary risks that we live with every day, and to the perils we foresee if governments and societies do not take action now to render nuclear weapons obsolete and to prevent further climate change? There?s a realization that we are changing our climate for the worse. That would have catastrophic effects. Although the threat is not as dire as that of nuclear weapons right now, in the long term we are looking at a serious threat.?

Are you seriously going to tell us that Professor Hawking does not know what he is talking about?
Do you seriously believe you have a greater knowledge of the subject?

Give us a break. At the very least quote someone of equal standing that agrees with your position. 
Realist: The largest single donation in our history by Mr Woods to the Greens was honestly donated and openly declared.

Since you seem to know about the machinations of the LNP, how about you tell us of the many faceless corporates who have donated to the LNP and by what means. ICAC tells us that the donors are secretive to say the least and the means by which they donate are somewhat dubious by there very design if not criminal. Anything but open and honest.

If I were a LNP supporter I would definitely steer clear of the topic of political donations as the stench of corruption, fraud and kickbacks is overpowering.We seem to have developed a massive industry in targeting every penny from pensioners superannuation and retirement savings. Its seen as easy pickings for the morally bereft money makers.

Lawyers, financial advisors, settlement agents, real estate agents, management companies and financial institutions are complicit and collaborative in their deceptions. All designed to garner every last penny from the vulnerable and the weak. They are predatory and morally corrupt and to be honest our politicians don't give a toss.  

It is the responsibility of government to regulate these deceiver so as to protect our elderly and disadvantaged citizens. Good luck getting a response. 

The lack of a moral and ethical compass is oh so bloody evident.I totally approve of your approach 'the egg' the only problem though is that not as many pensioners as your good self can actually run fast enough to catch these worms in this corrupt industry.

Our politicians, no matter their colours should have quite simply told the industry to clean up its act prior to contemplating of any changes.

Just imagine the ruckus if unions were systematically ripping off their members and intimidating employers similar to the recent actions of the Commonwealth Bank and others. The LNP would cause such a ruckus that they would demand a Royal Commission. Oh, that's right, they do have one. Is it because they care?

The question is WHY does the LNP not support a Royal Commission into systemic deceptive and criminal fraud within the banking sector? Is ripping off pensioners and retiree's of millions of dollars and then bullying them into submission if they complain just a trivial matter? Is it because they do not care?

Would that not be a better and more appropriate subject of an article Mr Rantall rather than this self serving piece you have delivered here.So I take it from your post that you are finally admitting there is a problem. That's the first step. 

Now lets examine your analysis and conclusion that " ... our emissions are rising in proportion to our economic growth and no 'carbon tax', ETS or any other faux 'market mechanism' has a snow-flakes chance in Hades of changing that fundamental link.

So just what do you suggest GRF, throw money at the polluters with the hope they will do the right thing, or maybe, just maybe develop our economy and collaborate with the rest of the world to develop a sustainable renewable energy future with far less reliance on fossil fuels. 

Hell, with actual scientific research and development, just maybe we can solve this problem. As Professor Stephen Hawkins and other great scientific minds point out, to do nothing is not an option.Schadenfreude : (meaning) to derive pleasure from someone else's misfortune.

I think that says it all about your posts.

On the science. In one corner, we have Tony Abbott tells us global warming is crap. Alan Jones tells us its "only carbon dioxide," and Andrew Bolt tells us its all a big conspiracy and Rupert Murdoch tells us we should not build near the ocean( a bit late Rupert). Excellent, we have these great scientific minds putting forward their compelling views based on their own expertise and analysis. Accordingly they must be right, they surely would not have a vested interest, surely not, why would anyone doubt these great thinkers.

In the other corner, we have for example, Stephen Hawkins, who tell us that the 2 greatest threats to mankinds existence on this planet are nuclear war and, wait for it, global warming. In his words, "its the responsibility of scientist to inform and educate governments of the dangers of human induced climate change." He says we have no choice but to address this problem, the science is settled.

Stephen Hawkins is only one of the 85 - 95% of actual real scientists that represent this view, to of course varying degree's but with the same fundamental message. Climate change is real and human induced climate change must be address as a priority by world governments.

Who to believe, Abbott, Jones, Bolt, Murdoch or maybe Hawkins and the vast majority of the worlds scientific community. Gee, I don't know, who could actually be right?

Your views, as expressed in your posts, are quite ridiculous. Our government is much the same.

ij: of course its not and renee did not say it was. For god sake get over yourself and stop reading into things your own misgivings. 

Domestic violence is wrong, plain and simple.I've had an accident and strangers stopped and helped. Take it from me Mike, you did the right thing mate and your help would definitely have been appreciated. Feel good about your action.
We never really know how we would react in such a situation. I take comfort from the fact that people are basically good and will do what they can. 

We can only try our best. I thank Kathy and Roger for their powerful thought provoking story. 

I think the best thing we can all do is to help spread this story and get our own children and grandchildren to read and discuss this powerful tribute.The sooner NSW completes their inquiry and actually prosecutes those found guilty to the full extent available by law the better. 

In my opinion, for what it is worth, all lobbying should be done in an open forum for all to see. Secret lobbying should be illegal.

Lobbyist have every right to put forward their case, but that case must be made to the people. Open for debate and scrutinised and analysis by the people. Its the peoples democracy, the peoples money and the peoples decision.

In this way Ministers and such are protected from vested interest accusation and threats and from their own greed. If they agree or disagree with the lobbyists position then run the argument. Only then can we have true democratic processes.

What is your view Ben, surely openness is a good thing. 

Way too much emphasis is placed on the outcomes of the productivity commission whom only ever look at the bottom line whilst societal good and social fairness issues are given little consideration 

It takes leadership, forward thinking and hard work to formulate good policy. Instead we see laziness and outsourcing to vested interests agenda dominated policy development.

This governments recent Commission of Audit that underpinned their unfair and rotten budget is a prime example of this lazy politics.

Oh for a decent leader.

"Tony and Clive are two of a kind. Maybe Parliament isn't big enough for both of them."

Too right, I say get rid of both, but without an election, that would not be democratic would it.

It has always amazed me how the conservatives keep on electing 'nutters'. Surely good people with conservative leanings can see the folly of electing erratic rabid mouth pieces as there representatives.

Tuckey, Katter, Abbott, Palmer, Pyne, Brandis, Bronwyn, Lambie, Bernardi, Heffernan, Hanson, Slipper and the list goes on and on. I should have been a conservative, then maybe even I could get a run, lol.

On a more serious note, Palmer should either be made to apologise or be censured. If Abbott had any decency he would ensure this would happen based on principle. Lets see. 


It is important to understand that Snowden released information to a media outlet. That media outlet then let the people of the world know about these crimes. In our context, would a media outlet be guilty under these laws and thus censured for publishing?.

Its also important for those whom break the law, including intelligence services and complicit governments, can be brought to justice. The question must be asked, how can anyone prove law breaking without a mechanism for protecting whistle blowers ?.

As seen recently, the 153 asylum seekers issue shows that even parliamentary investigations cannot garner the information as to these peoples whereabouts. There is even a question over whether the High Court can garner this information.

Do these laws supplant parliamentary privilege?. How in fact can government and intelligence services be held to account?

To many unanswered questions. Brandis and Co and scared little men paranoid about anything and anyone that disagrees with their narrow minded world view. They are an embarrassment in our true progressive democracy. The Labor Party are not much better on these issues.Similar to what is happening in Queensland. The Newman government is doing all it can to nobble accountability within state politics. 

Seems the Liberals will do anything to cover their tracks even if it means destroying long held protocols and systems to protect the people from corrupt government.

Not surprising considering the revelation in ICAC concerning their corrupt antics in NSW. It just a question of time before the crap hits the fan up here and their house of cards tumbles. How much damage is done in the meantime is a big concern.SueB and China, stuffed olive is correct. The LNP government has sewn the seeds of distrust by lying to everyone they have tried to negotiate with. Windsor, Oakeshott, Wilke. Milne among others, and now the PUP Senators have all openly stated that Abbott and Co are deceitful and dishonest. 

This distrust in everything they do is now biting them on the butts. No one from any part of the parliament can trust what the LNP say and neither can the Australian people.

The Independent Senator John Madigan has expressed the same sentiments just today. 

Lack of trust is the root cause of the stuff ups in parliament last week and this lack of trust can be directly traced to the LNP front bench. They reap what they sow. That's the problem with deceit and lies. People stop trusting your word, as they should.

LNP credibility is non exist, and that is a problem for us all.I think you are correct yank. It is very possible our trading partners may punish our lack of action on climate change.

Interesting that one of the most respected and smartest people in the world, Stephen Hawkins,  warns against governments doing nothing on climate change. Who do you reckon has a better handle on the truth of the science, Stephen Hawkins or our own suppository of knowledge, Tony Abbott? I wonder who is right, umm?  

As far as Zings desperation is concerned, why am I not surprised that just a few short months after elected he and others cannot find anything positive to say about the LNP?. Could it possibly be that there is actually nothing to be positive about?.

Nothing can make Abbott and Hockey, Pyne and Morrison, Cormann and Sinodinos, Bishop and Bishop look honest mate. The lies followed by more lies is what this lot will be remembered for no matter how much you and others try to rewrite history.

The very fact that there is a growing list of conservative aligned independents over many years who openly state that Abbott and Co simply cannot be trusted says it all. Conservative PUP Senators only add to that list.

This government was elected based on lies, lies and more lies, and will be punished at the next election for those many LIES.
homerami : 

lie (noun) :- a false statement made with deliberate intent to deceive; an intentional untruth; a falsehood.

I, as many others do, believe that this government was elected based on its election promises, the majority of which have been shown to be LIES.

You can use any definition you like, and you can try to rewrite the history, but in the end the Australian people will judge this government on their many LIES, and remove this blight on our democracy from the great halls of our parliament.

Please ask me "what lies ?", I dare you.

I don't think John Hewson's credibility has been damaged by this article at all. On the contrary I believe that once most politicians are freed from their, in my opinion, unnecessary party shackles they tend to make sense and be credible. 

Its a sad indictment of our parliament that whilst in office, traits like honesty and integrity are compromised to such an extent that the good people, we are assured are in parliament, are discourages and stopped from harnessing their good idea's and intentions for the good of the nation. 

Correct me if I am wrong but I think at last count there were many more spin doctors than elected members in parliament. 

Get rid of the spin doctors along with professional lobbyists and maybe, just maybe, our system could actually work. Just an idea.Very astute comment indeed. Are we all being Gamed? Only time will tell, but it is certainly hard to believe Clive is anything but Big End of Town Liberal.John ; I suspect our politics are poles apart, but I do agree with your views on the Nationals. They are quite simply a subsidiary of the liberal party and not a party in their own right. 

They have let the farmers and others of the land and country area's down. Their best hope is to disband their coalition with the libs and become a independent party again. 

Balance of power on the cross benches is a much more effective way of prosecuting their issues and representing their voters. 

Simply being a compliant follower feeding off of the crumbs thrown to them by the Libs accomplishes absolutely nought for their cause.Confused, I am.

Reading between the lines, one is given the distinct impression John Hewson, like Malcolm Frazer, Brendan Nelson, and even Malcolm Turnbull seem to all be very concerned about the direction of the far right Liberal party under Tony Abbott. 

These days they all have one thing in common. They all seem to be way way left of the present Liberals views and seem more comfortable with and aligned to the centre right of the Labor Party.

Even more confusing.

The very fact that a billionaire coal baron is running a campaign based on fighting for a fair go for the less fortunate, pensioners, stay at home mums and mining companies is a bit surreal. Its confusing to say the least. 

If we are to believe Clive (big if) then his politics seem to be somewhere between up and down rather than left or right. 

I think this is what is confounding most pundits and has got the Media in a spin as whilst he may be entertaining, he has redefine the very notion of left/centre/right politics, with a whole new confusing up/down paradigm.

Total confusion reigns.

The question is, if we rely on Clive to keep the bastards honest, just who do we rely on to keep him honest ?

clete :  ".... it's a disaster for the country when a man of Palmers integrity is wielding the law making sword".

Close but in reality your statement is wrong, the LNP are actually in government. Let me help you correct it.

".... it's a disaster for the country when a man of Abbotts lack of integrity is wielding the law making sword.

See, now its right.Harry, the economy is not measured by debt and deficit. There are many elements that you and your LNP mates are either purposefully ignoring or maybe you don't have a clue. One or the other.
Here's some figures for you.

Howard years:
1996 GDP  $402 billion.
2007 GDP  $850 billion.

Total Howard Growth $448 billion over 11 years.

Rudd/Gillard/Rudd years
2007 GDP  $850 billion.
2013 GDP  $1,560 billion.

Total R/G/R Growth $710 billion over 6 years.

Even taking into account inflation the Rudd/Gillard Rudd economy out performed the Howard economy easily and it accomplished this feat in spite of the worst global downturn since the great depression.

In actual fact if you study the true figures our economy grew faster in the R/G/R years than at any stage in our history.

How do we reduce debt? We grow the economy faster than the accumulation of debt. Business 101.

Please do not peddle your debt and deficit disaster lies anymore. To do so is simply deceitful.To answer the question. Worthy amendment to an unworthy policy.

Its very interesting how business can say the carbon price is breaking them when they actually passed the cost on to their customers, and now they are saying that when repealed it will break them to pass on the savings to their customers.

I think we all suspect the obvious in the fact that many businesses overstated the carbon price in the first instance and used it as an excuse for excessive price gouging and now they are concerned that their original deceptions will now be uncovered.

Of course not all businesses engaged in this deception but as with all regulatory processes the honest person ends up paying for the dishonesty of others. I say don't blame the carbon price blame your corrupt mates.

Its all a dogs breakfast and more and more people are waking to the fact that the original plan of moving to an Emissions Trading Scheme makes both economic sense (it gives business consistency) and puts us in line with the international community which again makes economic sense.

I know it's hard for her detractors to admit, but  Julia Gillard's good work on this issue is in actual fact the best option. Credit where credit is due. She was right all along as no doubt this government will prove to all, with the damage it will no doubt do to our environment, our economy and our international reputation by ignoring both the science and the world markets.

At least Clive is holding Abbott and his cronies to account, and rightly so. They cannot be trusted as a long and growing list of conservative independents can attested. 

How many more people, including those conservatives whom actually have to deal with this lot, does it take to convince the rusted on liberals that their present front bench quite simply cannot be trusted. Face it people, Abbott and Co are deceitful, untrustworthy liars.

Time to bite the bullet and either change leaders and tactics or call an election. This debacle has already gone on for far too long.I'll start the debate. I throw in with the non-meritocratic world view, you don't necessarily deserve everything you get. If you're rich, you didn't solely earn your wealth, but were lucky enough to be born into good socioeconomic circumstances, get a good education and benefit from the entire social and political framework.

My first point of evidence is the obvious inheritance argument. Inheritance is not earned on merit by the receiver and thus fits perfectly with the non-meritocratic definition as describe by the author.

Inheritance is not necessarily only monetary. Nepotism is a form of inheritance where the receiver of such has not necessarily earned their position. Will Hodgman in Tassy and Campbell Newman in Qld, both given advantage because of their parents connection are premiers and are just 2 examples of nepotism in our politics. 

The Monarchy is a prime example of nepotism where privilege and power is passed on rather than earned.

Boardrooms around the world are infested with appointments based on nepotism.

I look forward to the 'lifters and leaners" brigade to explain their meritocratic world view.
In that same 6yr period Australia's GDP grew from $800 billion to $1525 billion. Debt after Howard $59.1 billion, Debt after Rudd/Gillard/Rudd $260 billion. Future fund after Howard $63 billion, Future Fund after Rudd/Gillard/Rudd $98 billion. 

I know these figures are boring for you because they are the real facts.

To make it simple for you Australia's Gross Domestic Product grew by $725billion (nearly doubled) in those 6yrs all during a Global Financial Crisis. The Future fund grew by $35billion and debt grew by $200billion resulting in net debt growth of $165Billion, once again all during the GFC.

So take the $165 billion extra debt from the $725billion growth and you will see Australia's economy grew by approx. $560billion.

 (consider our GDP was $800billion take $59billion=$741billion total after Howard in 2007)

Pretty good outcome in 6yrs considering the GFC and that is why Labor did very well indeed in managing our economy during one of the most difficult times in the international markets.

Please base your posts on facts rather than LNP fallacy.

Howard, your joking right. The horrible little twit got in because people disliked Keating (understandable), then the children overboard scandal and the WMD's in Iraq saved his bacon. Both issues have been proven to be based on LIES. He got lucky with timing of international incidents with a bit of help from Mark Latham. No wonder we have Abbott and Co lying through their collective teeth non stop. Lying has become synonymous with the LNP.Interestingly you pay $20/wk or $1040/yr Carbon Tax when even Abbotts inflated number is $500.

The PUP Senators did the right thing today, they are trying to lock in penalties for not passing on the savings from a repealed carbon tax. Those exact savings you are talking about. 

The trickery by this government was typical LNP big end of town politics in allowing Corporates to retain the carbon tax monies by simply paying a relatively small fine.

You should be thanking the PUP Senators rather than lambasting them, they have probably saved us all from corporate greed swallowing up any carbon tax savings. On your numbers your family will be $20/wk better off because of them.There lies the problem Janice. Your view is simply just a partisan rant and does not take into account the actual facts. This issue need a bipartisan solution.

The Pacific Solution was not working as either a deterrent or for humanitarian reasons. Rewriting history to suit your own agenda does nothing to solve the problem.
 
Julia Gillard to her credit tried to reach bipartisan agreement on this issue only to be thwarted by the LNP with the help of the Greens. I suggest you do some research other than News Corp headlines and actually look at what the committee headed by Angus Houston recommended in 2012.

A case can be made that the deep divisions over asylum seeker policies by all sides can be directly tracked to the Children Overboard Incident where the then John Howard led LNP government deliberately demonised Asylum Seekers and lied to the Australian people in the lead up to an election. One of the most despicable politically motivated propaganda moments in our history that still reverberates today. 

The LNP have never been interested in a bipartisan approach and have in fact undermined any attempted bipartisan agreement quite simply because they see votes in the issue. Their continual misrepresenting of facts, their cover ups and secret operations, all whilst espousing exaggerated false compassion and crocodile tears do not foster an environment for solutions to be found.

The Labor Party and the Greens have not been innocent in all this, especially under Rudd Mk11, but to simply blame Labor for all past failures, espousing Howards past failed policies, with rose coloured glasses, is a mistruth and a continuation of attitudes that can only result in the same miserable inhumane outcomes we see today.

Multi-partisan politics and a truly independent body to develop policy is my suggest starting point for a solution. Going back to past failures is simply ignorant lazy politics.


Peter the Lawyer: Rewriting the history on this issue has been a staple used by people like yourself to justify inhumane policies like the failed Pacific Solution. I suggest prior to throwing accusation around calling me a liar you should actually do some research. We can argue for hours but instead I will point you to an article published on the Drum in 2012 by John Manedue on this very subject entitled "Pacific Solution didn't work before and it won't work now" 

www.abc.net.au/news/2012-03.../menadue...pacific-solution.../3886792

Its interesting reading as it uses actual facts and figures on both pull and push factors, like the very fact of the Taliban's demise that removed the largest push factor of the time. 

I suggest you also read up on just how much suffering and misery the Pacific Solution caused to the very people that committed that terrible crime of fleeing war torn countries and asking for our help. The nerve of these criminals, I hear you say.

To deter through cruelty and retribution is not my version of a successful policy given Australia's history of egalitarianism. In my view, and I do have a right to a view, a policy that is successful results in outcomes that are improvements on the status quo. 

The present 'ends justifies the means' mantra professing to save lives by sending people back to their persecutors makes no sense and is indefensible. 

 
Dead right 'aka Alias' Queenslanders do remember certain things and taking false credit for the good work of Queensland's Emergency Services and Volunteers is political death in this neck of the woods. What a show pony he actually is.

He is an upstart Tasmanian born of Liberal Party career political parents and as a result he has had his nose in the public money trough all his life. Sure he spent some time in the military but as a silver spoon officer cadet in true elitist traditions at Duntroon Military College. Entered the military at 18 and a Lieutenant by 22, certainly not a hard working grunt.

Parachuted into the Lord Mayors role with LNP backing and family money and repeated the trick to gain the Premiership. His success as Lord Mayor of Brisbane was entirely due to the very fact that he was surrounded by good councillors during an economic boom. 

It is an indictment on the LNP in Qld that the conservatives up here could not come up with a suitable leader and had to parachute in a media darling of little substance. Springborg, Sweeney and the rest are not men of substance at all and everyone north of the Tweed knows this. 

Like Abbott, Newman got elected on lies, lies and more lies backed by a dishonest LNP biased media. The Courier Mail is a joke. Queenslanders have woken up to this one trick pony government and I have no doubt will punish them at the ballot box.wow Ben.

Hypocrites complaining about hypocrisy. The irony is hilarious. 

You and others seem to be short on positive spin for the LNP. Is it that even their supporters cannot find love for this Government.

In my opinion, 'patronising' is a very good description of Abbotts new found love for the new Senators. Watch him and his rabid dogs turn when they do not get their own way.It all about gaming the new Senators. Very difficult to find negative comments about the new bunch from the LNP front bench and their fanatical tea party followers contrary to their attacks of a few weeks back. Its a con ..... just watch them turn like rabid dogs if they don't get their own way.

Berg is just subserviently following the script. 

The (No)alition will do anything to force their horrible budget on us. Its all just a game to them. The sooner they are dumped the better.

Personally I applaud the diversity, even if I don't agree with their politics and for heaven sakes it was an Induction, the same as any workplace has.




What a load of rubbish. The House of Reps has 150 members. Some say that for the House to be truly representative then it follows that they should have 15 seats in the House. Every vote being equal and all. Its a position that has merit and worth consideration if change is seen as necessary. 

Your accusations about money motives can just as easily be placed on all members and thus makes your theory just a straw man fallacy.

Amazing how haters of the Greens never actually listen to their policies and just throw mud. Says more about the mud chucka than their target.  
Political gamesmanship that backfired on the major parties. I agree bizzybags but there is some sort of twisted justice to see the gamers being gamed. 

Hopefully the new bunch is not as thick and na?ve as first impressions. Time will tell.Queensland bumbles its way from one dictatorial government to the next. The lack of a House of Review in Qld has hardly been good for democracy and has only encouraged little dictators from Joh through to the present lunatic Newman to get away with their corrupt practices.

No ICAC here in Qld but definitely more corruption. A House of Review is good for democracy as it has the power to hold a government to account. Take a real good look at what is happening in Qld at the moment where the Newman government has run roughshod over the CMC and the Supreme Court.  

Seems Anna Bligh was right when she said Newman is nothing but a crook.Good luck in getting this particularly vested interest infected government to do anything at all in protecting us from the excesses of their big end of town backers. In fact they are working in the exact opposite direction with their 'Australia is open for business' mantra that deceptively hides their 'Australia is up for sale' policies. 

They are the most morally and politically corrupt bunch of politicians we have ever seen in this country and we will be paying for their dishonesty for many years to come. 

Unabated and unchecked self regulation by the financial sector is and has been the problem for many a year. (Did we learn nought from the GFC?) Governments need to regulate, after all, is that not what they are for.

Anarchy in our financial sector reigns as can be seen by the recent revelations about the criminal actions of the CBA and others, yet this government winds back the ALP/Greens reforms designed to protect the consumer. Unbelievable. 

If self regulation worked, then, we would have no need for police, as people would confess their crimes and lock themselves up, would they not?.

The LNP love to say Governments should get out of the way of business when in fact that is akin to removing the referee from the footy field. 

The question is, can Australia afford another two years of these fools?.By paying inflated house prices so they can get a bit back through negative gearing if they take on more debt and become a property investor. I think they would be better off with the lower price in the first instance, don't you? 

Its a gamed roundabout mate. Any gains from negative gearing by the small investor are taken up in higher taxes paid to subsidise the negative gearing of the big investor. The small man will never win.Clearly your history is selective. 

Maybe you remember the most profligate government in our history. Honest Johnny's policies on Capital Gains and purchasing votes with middle to upper class welfare started the revenue shortfall. 

The same Honest Johnny who lied on Children overboard and oversaw the Australian Wheatboard Scandal. (providing funds to the enemy-treason)

Seems moral and ethical corruption is a strongpoint for the LNP, honed to a very sharp point by the present lot. 

Face facts paulinadelaide, This particular LNP Government has surpassed the Howard government as the most deceitful-dishonest in recent memory as they have lied and lied and continue to lie about their lies.

The most dishonest-deceitful description fits perfectly with the actual facts.I agree yank: It may interest you and the Author here that after polls released on the weekend in Qld show the Campbell Newman LNP state government is on the nose and has suffered a huge swing against it. On cue, the dominant newspaper, a typical Murdoch rag, the Courier Mail has a positive and partisan front page about Newman, trying to spin black is white and visa versa.

The editorial and opinion columns are full of positive headlines and comments about Newman and negatives about all others. 

This newspaper(LNP propaganda sheet) is atypical of the Murdoch Media's far right agenda and thus the middle ground, politically non interested, reader just looking for footy results and a crossword are subjected to this propaganda by stealth. They simply flip through the paper scanning the (pro LNP) headlines and flip to the back page.

The problem we have as a society that drives this polemic attitude the author is worried about is the fact that our broadsheets are extremely partisan and do not, as they profess, hold politicians to account any more. The fourth estate has become a forum for the cheer squads rather than the commentators, infested by partisan vested interests. Far too often, deceptive political propaganda and product promotion is passed off as news in this country. 

The traditional fourth estate is no longer a trusted source of information and thus people are flocking to other forums for their news.

Todd, I take it from your post that you support some ALP social policies, but you are a right wing LNP voter. You hate Palmer because he is prone to changing his position on policy.

I am extremely confused. Surely given your stated reason for your dislike of Palmer you cannot possibly like Abbott. He has had multiple mind changes about, well lets see, um, climate change, abortion drugs, paid parental leave, women, oh and of course federalism. He lied about, well, everything and his views are dependant on the particular audience he is addressing at the time. He tells us the Carbon Tax is bad whilst to Obama he praises the rise in fuel excise, describing it as a claytons Carbon Tax.

Your problem Todd is you are Centre right but your preferred party is extreme right. You most likely have more in common with the present centre right Labor Party, its just your pride that is getting in your way mate. Vote Labor next time, as Society is much more important than vested interest profits, and I am sure you will feel much better about yourself as well....and conned by the Murdoch Press. The Courier Mail is at it again in Queensland today. Polling shows the Newman government is on the nose and right on cue the Murdoch LNP propaganda sheet leads with positive so called news and editorials in support of this twit completely ignoring his many failures and the reasons he is actually on the nose.All governments spy on each other. Indonesia making political gain because we got caught is to be expected. We would do the same.

Sell the meat in Australia or another country after we value add and secondary process. More employment and better standards of treatment. Better outcome all up. But hey, what would I know other that the fact that I pay a higher price per kilo for Aussie beef than people in Indonesia. Go figure.TheOtherJohn: You have been raving on a bit now attempting to run a strawman argument to divert blame to Shorten and the ALP for the misconduct of the Commonwealth Bank and others.

1. The Banks have been acting dishonestly.
2. We cannot quantify that dishonesty.
3. The Senate committee found ASIC to be negligent, NOT under resourced.
4. FoFA regulations were identified as needed because of misconduct by the financial sector in the first instance.
5. Caesar investigating Caesar judged by Caesar is simply not good enough and inappropriate.

Your hate for anything left of your extreme right views are not held by the majority and thus your cries of 'no one listens to me' can quite simply be judged as the 'lunatic fringe' complaining about the consensus of democracy. Just a hint mate, Australia is a DEMOCRACY.

We all wish for that Utopian State of no laws and regulations but some of us are realists, from the left, right and centre who understand that some people, financial advisors included, and some businesses, banks included, will, given the opportunity, operate deceptively and dishonestly for their own greed and gain at the expense of their clients. Thus rules and regulations are required to maintain a level playing field for all, as well as, societal protections from con artists. 

As far as ASIC is concerned, it was not a lack of resources that caused them to turn a blind eye to deceptive and dishonest practices, it was because they simply did not act when action was required. 'Why?' is the question, and 'How can we prevent this happening again?' is the goal. For these reasons the Senate committee recommended a Royal Commission. A RC that the present government does not want. One must ask WHY?.
Its a crazy world we live in. Luke you are lambasted and abused by liberals for having a very liberal view of migration. 

I recommend a resent article on the drum by Chris Berg of the IPA and you will see what is so confusing for those on the right, whom constantly represent the views of extreme leftists as their own. It would be funny if it was not for the selfish cruelty of the present governments policies.

A government should be a reflection of its people. The question that we must ask ourselves is "does this government reflect the present Australian society?"


Couldn't agree more Tristan, government run child care is the way to go. Privatising child care has seen costs skyrocket as is the case with all government privatisations.So stop all wars, stop all oppression and create utopia's all over the world. I agree totally and I am a lefty. You on the other hand are full of it. I am okay pal bugger the rest is your mantra.

Maybe a good place to start is by not supporting regimes like presently exist in Sri Lanka that pretend, much like our government, that they are great supporters of human rights. Maybe giving asylum to those terrified of persecution from their own government is a good place to start making the world a better place. 

Simply burying your head in the sand without due consideration to the facts is simply no answer it is just simply kicking the ball down the road. Did it escape your attention that we have a racist government and before all the rabble get on here with their moral outrage, just think about if these people were Anglo Christians, would we accept them then?. Too bloody right we would.I agree - take it down. I also say that, as with all  cases of pedophile's where abusing happens over many years someone knew what was happening and elected to stay silent. 

Hey Dad star Robert Hughes was know by Network Sevens management to be 'handsy' and had received many complaints. Complaints they elected to ignore because of the "money generated" by the perpetrator. Michael Jacksons minders have admitted to being very concerned about his behaviour but did nothing to stop it. Jimmy Saville could not have gotten away with decades of abuse without someone knowing. Rolf Harris is no different.

The question for the entertainment industry is just how many managers, family members and executives ignored warnings and failed to protect children because they were on the gravy train? How many executives, family members and managers were complicit in, or worse, actual enablers of such behaviour? 

There are many working in the Australian and British entertainment industry today that have many such questions to answer. Will they ever be held to account?I applaud your self control and Monty. I just call them a bunch of LIARS. Abbott, Hockey, Pyne, Abetz, Morrison, Bishop x 2, Cormann and Andrews as well as a couple of bigots in Brandis and Bernardi, and you get the most deceitful group of LIARS we have ever witnessed in Government. 

There is a certain stench of corruption and deceitfulness emanating from the LNP and unless the decent people in that party do something about this lot quickly they will definitely be tarred with the same brush and deservedly so.

Stella is just one of a long line of good people who are disgusted by this lot. Good on you for speaking out Stella and please understand that this lot do not represent the majority of the peoples wishes. They would never have been elected if not for their deceitful and purposeful LIES.RobP: Keatings deregulation reforms were the best thing to happen to the Australian Economy. Burying your head with the excuse that its all too hard is no solution. Like all worthwhile reforms the progressives actually get things done whilst the conservatives sit on their hands letting big business run the show.

This particular Government has been noticeably silent on this issue of corporate corruption and shonky practices, mainly because of their own complicity and their undoing of the very important regulations designed to protect the punter, (WHY I WONDER?). The only critique of the financial sector has been from Hockey where he has shown concern only because a relative of his has been on the wrong end of the CBA's systematic rip offs.

Its about time this LNP mob stated listening to the people whom elected them, rather than implementing their narrow minded and corrupt agenda of outsourcing policy development to the foreign owned vested interests at the big end of town whom fund them. So much for being a Government that represents all. Just another big fat LIE.RobP: I sense your anger is because you are conflicted as is your post.

1. You seem to prefer a closed economy which would in essence lower Australians living standards as all closed economies eventually do.
2. You seem to lambast big business for their corrupt and crooked behaviour yet you hate Labors government (people) regulatory agenda whilst favouring the conservatives agenda of self regulation which is more open to abuse.
3. Other than the GST (originally Keatings preferred model of tax) just what have the conservatives even done for Australia other than give big business free reign over our economy, something you seem to hate.

Face it mate, your 'conservatives' preach the polar opposite to what you espouse. Free market etc..You want a closed economy with protectionism through tariffs and subsidies. You want government to pick winners and have no clue as to the damage your policies would do to those non preferred sectors.
Australia has moved on from the 50's, I suggest you do as well.What if you are employed on a casual basis, do you get PPL then? Put the 5.5 billion into state run child care based in local schools and the results would be much better for all concerned. 2 different locations for the kids is just plain stupid. After school care is then a lot easier as the older kids can simply walk across the school to attend. 

No need for expensive new centres paid for through the nose in the private sector taking an ever increasing cut from the child care pool of money. Get rid of the middle man and run them from our schools. Less cost and more convenient for parents.

Whether my idea is good or not, it will not see the light of day on the political agenda because it does not allow for private enterprise profiteering and thus will be lobbied against because there is no money to be syphoned into a vested interest coffer. 

After all isn't that what privatisation is all about. Syphoning government monies into the coffers of the lobbyists paymaster no matter the cost of services to the ultimate payer, that being the taxpayer.

The system has been corrupted by business. This is where the real need for 'separation of powers' is required. Get rid of privatisation and remove vested interests from Government policy formation and then and only then can we the people be truly represented as the most important element of a society.

Wow. When people talk of Dictatorship and Military Junta's as a positive step forward, we really need to reassess our present government. Never will you get more proof for the necessity of a DD to allow the people to have their say now that all agenda's are on the table, rather than the lies and propaganda of the last election.

Strengthening our democracy with greater emphasis on accountability in government is surely the better way to go.

The problem arises from the direct opposition to any measure of accountability from governments, (this one in particular). A Royal Commission into ALL political donations to ALL parties in the federal sphere rather than this very narrowly targeted star commission into the unions (whom by the way have a far greater membership than any political party) is long past due and necessary to promote the long lost trust in our political class and their parties.Lighten up Fed, after all your round ball game is played with all the drama of a Shakespearean tragedy. Saurez being Shylock, a much maligned and misunderstood victim just simply trying to redeem his pound of flesh.

In all seriousness though, no matter the style or code of football you support, biting is a major offense and for this particular player a life ban would be appropriate considering this is his third offense, among other serial bad behaviours. 

Lets hope his compatriots win their next game without him, showing his irrelevance and stupidity to all, including him.Palmer and Gore. Seems Clive has a few tricks up his sleeve. Like him or hate him he is certainly not boring. 
On a more serious note, his position announced this arvo is a real game changer. If Clive sticks to his guns then Abbott is definitely wedged between a rock and a hard place with no room to move.

Clive's support for an ETS, with the backing of Al Gore may just be the impetus for the overdue and  much needed honest debate over how to tackle climate change. 

Deniers will not be happy, that's for sure.Christine Milnes argument on the expenditure side of the fuel excise budget measure has some merit. Public transport in Australia, or more pointedly, the lack of, is a huge problem in many area's. Milne is right when she states more Public Transport infrastructure will in fact reduce our carbon footprint. Intelligent and sound thinking. Some of the fuel excise money should go to this important infrastructure. It makes sense. 

I think the inability or lack of want to negotiate in good faith by Abbott is obvious here.
 
To get the Greens support he could have easily negotiated that some of the monies raised would be invested in public transport. He didn't.

To lay the blame for no outcome on the Greens alone is a bit disingenuous by the author. Anyone and everyone that has entered into negotiations with Abbott have universally come out to say you simply cannot trust his word. He has form. He cannot be trusted. He is a LIAR.

This was never more evident than when he could not even convince conservative independents to back him in a minority government. He is quite simply a liar and no dressing up of the facts will change that.

He lied to get into government and has continues to lie every single day since. 
Forrest. You make choices in budgets that reflects the wants and needs of the people. For example the government could choose to seriously do something about tax evasion, or they could choose to cut back on negative gearing concessions for commercial reasons, or they could choose to reduce the tax breaks in superannuation, or they could choose to increase the revenue from super profitable multinational enterprises. Its all about choices. 

You misrepresent the choices here. This government had many choices. They chose to attack the poor and vulnerable without any mandate to do so, for their hidden twisted tea party agenda. 

If you want to live in an American style system mate, then go. No one is preventing you. Make your choice. We live in Australia where thankfully our forefathers made their choice to established that very Australia principle of 'a fair go for all'.

Personally I choose Australian principles. We now know what Abbott/Hockey/Pyne/Corrman and co chose. Which do you choose Forrest? 

Hard to disagree with your sentiments Yank although no doubt we will get the usual sky is falling crap from the Abbott/Hockey propaganda machine, spruiking lies about a budget emergency, that trolls these pages.

Maybe Greg Jerico could do a correlation between inequality and corruption. Here in Queensland we have a government well and truly on the nose where the corruption watchdogs ability to hold government to account has been diluted to almost non existent levels, where the courts have been tainted and where political donations are hidden more so than ever. Corruption is virtually guaranteed under these conditions. 

The affront of Hockey lecturing the Greens and Labor about ethics and integrity today when he is implicitly involved in the very dodgy dealing of his fundraising foundation and the laundering of money through the shonky LNP eight by five sham outfit. Hypocrisy from the biggest hypocrites of all.

Increased inequity guaranteed under this lot.Ben, your arguments are becoming weaker by the day. Pointing to a disclaimer which accompanies just about all documents does not in the slightest prove the document wrong. 

The falsities you should be worried about are the LIES that got Abbott and co elected. You know. I can list them all here but there is simply not enough room on these pages. A couple will do for now.

1. We will have a surplus in our first year in government. Abbott/Hockey LIE

2. There will be no new taxes under an LNP government. Abbott/Hockey LIE

Both these promises were made less than a year ago. This list of deliberate and well known broken promises is long and damning and will haunt Abbott and his LNP tea party kleptocrats all the way to the next election.

I suggest you take another tack Ben. Honesty and integrity are not your sides strong suit.Typical right wing lies AE:

1. Labor inherited 59.1 billion debt from LNP
2. Economy grew from 825 billion to 1525billion under Labor
3. Debt grew from 59.1 billion to 267 billion under Labor
4. Future Fund grew from 60 to 95 billion under Labor

In essence the economy grew 700 billion and debt grew 208 billion minus the extra 35 billion equalling 173 billion extra debt help out by AAA credit rating and historically low borrowing rates. 

All accomplished during the greatest economic threat to world economies since 1930's. Pretty damn good result. Your arguments are full of deliberately false LNP propaganda promoted by your preferred propaganda sources.

Someone Else. Its who you know not what you know. Its not right but it is the harsh reality for young people to get a start. Networking is the key to getting into the workforce and as experience grows networking becomes less important.

My suggestion is to join a club or social group where you can increase your networking capacity. Get involved with your local Touch Rugby or Soccer club or maybe the local Rotary or Youth Club. Have a look at what is around. Try it. Get stuck in, have a go as you have nothing to lose and everything to gain. You will be surprised at how many jobs are filled like this. People get to know you, they get to like you and then want to help you. Its worth the effort.

Goodluck.Rae, whilst I agree with your sentiment and your analysis of more jobs in eco tourism the problems my home state suffer are a bit more complex. The problem is that there are not that many high wage jobs in tourism. Hospitality and tourism retail staff wages are simply not enough to raise a family. 

For that reason Forestry and Mining Jobs are highly prized by many in Tassy. Until this can be address then I am afraid those that wish to provide a decent standard of living and advantage for their family will support these destructive industries and vote twits like Hodgeman into power.

Fishing and Agricultural Jobs pay reasonably well but once again they are primary industry and thus are restricted in size because of there resource based nature.

Tasmania has suffered from short term thinking from successive governments who continue to promote primary industry at the expense of all  others. Bad policies by Labor followed by extremely bad policies from Liberals. The mainland is quickly heading in the same direction because of the same short term slow learning politics.

The present lot under Abbott and his cohorts are accelerating this self destructive process and soon the resource sectors will fail us and our economy will be in big trouble just like Tasmania is now. 

Forward thinking and intelligent leadership is much needed in this country. How we are to enable such people to be elected is beyond me given the graft and corruption infecting our governments, local, state and federal, Labor or Liberal.I'm not entirely convinced that this conflict is any of our business. The MH17 incident can not be portrayed in any other way than to say it was an avoidable but horrible accident. There is no proof than those Australians whom lost their lives were the target of any attack. There is a high likelihood that those whom fired that rocket thought they were fighting their enemy.

Where is any of this war our business? The only legitimate way for us to have a say is through the UN forums designed for such representations. Anything outside those parameters is both foolish and arrogant. Two qualities our present government is demonstratively infected with. Same goes for the ISIS situation.Very astute Ruby and Bella, the elephant in the room is the lack of any policy. Our international trading partners cannot be happy with Australia's lack of a policy. The proposed 'direct action policy' and lack of a carbon price operates the same as subsidies and tariffs giving Australian polluters an advantage over other countries that are committed to climate change action. 

I have no doubts that the European Union, China, the USA and Japan amongst others will punish our exports to make up the difference. It is part of our FTA's that we act as responsible world citizens on a level playing field. 

Is it not better for us to step up to the plate and be in control of our destiny rather that having to be dragged there and forced to comply with whatever penalties others dictate.

Oops, sorry, I forgot, we are all suppose to be talking about 'the war' are we not. Forget those little annoyances like the budget, or the climate, lets go and get those ISIS bastards.

Go Team Australia, Oi, Oi, Oi.Here we go again. The nuclear option.

Marko: "Who knows what new power source might be developed in the next 50 to 100 years"

These new sources of power are renewables. You know, energy that comes from a sustainable and clean supply. Talk about can't see the forest for the tree's.

Clean fossil fuel energy is simply not available. Clean nuclear is just a pipe dream. Until you find a safe way of transporting and disposing of the waste that does not take 500 years of expensive monitoring and maintenance it is not viable.

Short term thinking without a long term plan is the problem that those whom espouse nuclear need to address. The long term disposal and storage costs that our great great great great grandkids will still be paying year after year need to be taken into consideration as when this true cost is added in nuclear is a very expensive and dangerous option.

I don't think it should act as a subsidy but more a reflection as to the real costs of the damages these emissions cause and the required remedial actions to repair these damages.

A pricing signal if you like. Surely the conservatives understand what a price signal is. re $7 co payment. Their hypocrisy knows no bounds.Spot on Warwick, but good luck trying to convince the deniers and luvvy left haters whom believe mining companies are the be all and end all of our economy. Picking winners is this governments want. They say the car industry must close down because industry should stand on its own feet yet subsidize mining companies to the turn of billions. 

Seems to be that the miners donate more to the LNP than manufacturers. Remove all mining subsidies from super profiting mining ventures and spend that money on assisting our manufacturing sector that has been decimated by an over valued Aussie dollar propped up by those mining super profits.

Its about balance and for too many years the pendulum has been firmly to the side of the mining giants. Time for a correction.
That is the problem with the Team Australia mantra. It encourages twits like Ben to believe that if you don't agree with him then you must be with his enemies. Simplistic slogan and black and white thinking from simplistic morons who actually think they are the "suppository of all wisdom."

It is a sad indictment on our society and the office of Prime Minister that once again we will be sending our troops into a far away conflict for domestic political reasons under that ever encompassing guise of humanity and western values.

I am waiting for the knock at the door to get my Team Australia credentials checked. That reminds me I had better runoff now and commit to memory Johnny Howards birth date. I may need to know that important Australian date to pass the test.It seems bagging Alan Joyce has become an accepted Australian pastime. Correct me if I am wrong but is not Qantas a corporate entity?. Is it not, the shareholders to which Joyce must answer?. In other words, is it any of our business?. 

Just an inquiry.Peter, Simon was correct and his post is one of the best I have read on the subject. My problems as an atheist with the church, any church, is not with the religion but with the church.

If, and I stress If, there is a God, or Gods, then, is it not an insult for mere mortals to state categorically what Gods intentions, deliberations or interactions mean. 

How dare individuals get together and demand of others their own personal interpretations of ancient scrolls, books and stories telling everyone how they are the word of God. Self professed power.

Believe as you wish of your own personal God but please do not believe for a moment that your God is the same as anyone else's God and do not believe for a moment that you have any god given right to demands of me to believe in your own personal God.The Unions directly represent 1.8 million Australians and indirectly represents all workers. They set the standards for workers rights and prosecute the mantra of a fair days work for a fair days pay. The same standards and rights that defines us as good people, the same standards and rights that have a direct relevance to every part of our society.

If you want for a country without Unions then answer me as to how well those countries without unions do, as compared to those with. Before you display your ignorance you probably should think about the alternatives. There are plenty of countries out there to compare our own history and wage settings.

I think you will find good unions represent good people who are not greedy just want for a fair and just workplace with a fair and just wage. No more, no less. They are one of the main reasons that our standard of living is relatively high. You would throw that away for some sort of corporate utopia of dog eat dog world. 

They are part of the Labor Party and represent the interests of a very large portion of Australian society. They are our largest most representative lobby group by far. They have every right to a say in our democracy.

Dean: Just how unions are some how anti small business escapes me. Small business should actually congratulate the unions as it is the unions that are their best supporter.

Please understand that a low wage economy is a low price economy. Small business does best when everyone has money in their pocket. Small business does best when that money is spread out throughout society.

Small businesses compete with each other for custom. An even playing field is necessary to give all businesses a fair go. Part of that even playing field is the cost of labour, the setting of minimum standards of safety and employee/employer rights.

These minimum standards allows for all business to compete equally encouraging competition within the better services and products context rather than employee wages. The employer always has the right to pay more to better performers. 

The employer and employee have a set of rules and principles that have been industry negotiated to maintain this even playing field between employers. They are the IR laws and are the same for similar individuals and similar businesses throughout society. Once again a good thing for small business.

Removing these minimum would lead where? If for example you run a shop, your a fair man and you pay a fair wage. A competitor sets up over the road and undercuts your price. His undercutting is due to the fact that he provides no facilities for his employee's and he pays peanuts. What do you do?

Minimums are there for a reason, they are negotiated and of course the unions are going to argue the case for a greater share for the employee in exactly the same fashion as the Business Council argue the opposite. Its a negotiation that has served Australia very well.

The reality is that we cannot compete with third world countries on wage or conditions. We must compete on service delivery and product. That is where the Unions stand and that is why small business should support them.Yes Sandra we all love the concept. Its just this particular version with this particular Captain is not for me.
 
"Living in peace and in peace with each other.
Country's prosperity benefits all of it citizens. 
Rule of Law for all of its citizens.
Free speech and democratic system which enable every individual to reach its full potential." 

Your sentiments are exactly those that I admire but alas I do not believe in my heart that any team led by Tony Abbott would be anything other than a nasty bullyboy win at all cost bunch of cheats. As far as Captains go Abbott would be my last pick. I don't see Abbott and your list as in the same book never lone on the same page.

I require certain morals and principles of my Captain. I require my Captain to be honourable. I require my Captain to act honestly and with integrity. I require a little bit of martyrdom and a fair bit of temperance. I require bravery and a strength of character and straightforwardness. I require a leader. I invite other as to his pro's and con's but I find Captain Tony Abbott to be completely wanting and just a divisive joke.

Go Tony's Team Australia, good luck, but not with me thankyou.
Oi, oi, oi....Wow Ray. It would be good for you to actually research the budget. The age of entitlement isn't over mate, its just beginning. Have a good look at government entitlements at the big end of town. Penny wise pound stupid. Corporate welfare, tax breaks, tax avoidance, and incentives are by far in excess of any so called savings from cuts to the social safety net. 

Did you realise that Abbotts PPL will cost $3.5 billion extra on top of the present scheme. That equates to 500 million 7 dollar co-payments. Seems the age of entitlement is just over for the unemployed, the aged, the disabled and the sick. 

A woman on over $100 thousand a year is entitled to a $50,000 (that's 7,143 co-payments) for having a child with time off and a job to go back to whilst a woman on $25 thousand working as a casual gets nothing, nil, not a cent. 

She has to work up to the birth and get back to work ASAP to have any chance of retaining her job. The age of entitlement is not ending it is just becoming more expensive and targeted more narrowly, that's all.
Lets call it the Medical Research Tax. After all is that not what it is. The only reason to describe it as a co-payment, or to send a price signal, is for an excuse to prosecute a price rises. Like all other services we will get corporate costs that soak up price rises without a related increase in services. 

They have already said doctor could keep 28.5 % of the take for that ever encompassing term, accounting. An attempted bribe to get doctors over the line. This co payment crap is all about setting us up for the further corporatisation of our lucrative medical system . Another set of sticky fingers in that pot of money we call our taxes.Seems this modern breed of conservatives never let the fact get in the way of good spin. It has been a consistent within the conservative ranks under Abbott and Murdoch that rather than confront the facts they just simply ignore them, as well as  ignore science, ignore independent experts and opinion and quite simply lie, distort and misinform to prosecute their hidden agenda. Just what that agenda is?, I, for one, have no idea. Their stated objectives seem to be in complete contrast to their actions.

They say they are trying to balance the books yet they are reducing revenue by billions via repealing the mining tax. They say they must get rid of it because it is not raising enough money. How bizarre is that? Then they are planning to spend billions on direct action and paid parental leave and a medical research fund. Seems counterproductive to say the least. They say we have a massive debt yet borrow more and do nothing about it and in fact one of the first things they did was to doubled our debt ceiling. What the ....???

Their only answer to unemployment is to make it harder to be unemployed and easier to be sacked. It makes no sense. Their answer to affordable education is to make it more expensive. The same goes for health. Their answer to shonky financial advisors is to remove the need for them to act in their clients best interests. Simply defies logic.  

Their answer to climate change is to remove a carbon penalty and pay the biggest polluters to do the right thing. We may as well pay bank robbers not to rob banks. Its all quite ridiculous and a worrying direction. Just where is Captain Abbott leading his Team Australia? That is my main concern, not some concocted hindsight revisionist history writings from Chris Berg.Maybe it could have 'ateday'. Chris Berg like all others here are operating in the wonderful world of hindsight. The GFC posed real problems for our and every other economy. 

Mr Berg here makes statements to the opinions and reasoning of others for their stimulus decisions without be in the shoes of those making the decisions at the time of those decisions.

The stimulus package was the correct decision for the time. No one at the time was confident that recovery of the worlds economies was even possible at the time with many declaring complete breakdown and disaster.

I agree the stimulus was overdone but I can only offer that opinion with hindsight. The Rudd/Swan government acted both prudently and with caution in their assessment that it was better to over stimulate than to under stimulate our economy at the time, a measure that has proven to be successful and affordable.

I give them a big tick for their actions at the time. No one can ever know where the effects of austerity measures as espoused by the conservatives of the time would have taken our economy. Would we have seem massive unemployment and a collapse of our domestic markets or would we have seen small changes that hardly effected us. No one can say.

To do nothing as espoused by Chris Berg (with hindsight) would have put us in a position of completely depend on foreign economic managers to get things right in the hope that things would turn out okay. I don't think that was or should have been a realistic option especially during those very uncertain times.

Like I said, hindsight is a wonderful thing, it is just that I want for my government to operate in the real world, to be proactive not reactive in their decision making (see global warming). I want for my government to lead and not blindly follow. I want for my government to represent all Australians.

That is why I want for this government to either keep their election promises or call another election. They have no mandate and they are ignoring the wish of the majority. They were elected on lies and are implementing dishonest policies of austerity for the people and stimulus for big business when in fact bid business is doing quite well and the people are struggling.

Stupid is as stupid does.paulineadelaide: You like myself and everyone else cannot say what other methods or implementations of stimulus or not, would have done to the Australian economy, we can only postulate as to outcomes. 

What we can say though is whatever our government did or did not do at the time worked. It may not have been perfect but it worked, and that is the true test of policy. It delivered the stimulus in a way and fashion that put money through as many hands as possible in every community in the land, and in short time.

Credit where credit is due we can sit here and argue the merits of this and that but all in all it worked and should be applauded. We can now in the cold light of the post GFC world look at paying down that stimulus. I cannot see reason to talk down the economy and panic with emergency and disaster rhetoric when in fact we are in a very strong and robust economy thanks to past treasurers going back a long way.

Isn't that what the plan was? Thants what I thought antway.
OUB : lets put some myths to bed. Lets look at facts.

Howard left Labor with a $59 billion debt and a $60 billion future fund. 6 years later Labor left office with $279 billion in debt. and $98 billion future fund.

This equates to total increase in debt of approx. $180 billion.

During Howards 11 years the Australian economy grew from approx. $390 billion to $790 billion. During Labors 6 years our economy grew from approx. $790 billion to $1.5 trillion.

You will see Howard did not leave us debt free and Labors debt strategy during the GFC proved to shore up the economy which allowed for excellent growth that easily outpaced any debt incurred. That's called good business acumen. Spend $180 billion to make well over $700 billion. They are good numbers.

As far as my children are concerned. They will benefit immensely from the strong 3 x AAA rated economy bequeathed them as long as the LNP do not botch the job and plunge the economy into recession. A real concern.

We now need to adjust and find ways to balance the budget and pay down debt. Strengthening the mining tax by following Ken Henry's original recommendation would be a start. A financial sector super profits tax would be appropriate as well considering the Deposits guarantee given the Banks during the GFC which gave them a market advantage that has seen sustained and record growth in the sector.

A cut in superannuation tax concessions. Extending the period of the 'temporary tax levy' for high income earners to ten years would also be appropriate given the tax cuts they have benefitted from during the mining boom. 

The point is this government has choices as to how it balances the books and giving away an extra $3.5 billion on PPL, $2.5 billion on direct action and foregoing revenue from the carbon and mining taxes makes no economic sense.

Labors economic management was an appropriate and successful response at the time to the GFC. Our strong AAA rated economy is by no accident. The results speak for themselves. You can postulate all you like but at the end of the day, no matter what else is said the Australian response to the GFC was very successful and the envy of the world.The Royal Commission into Institutionalised Child Abuse is the most important Royal Commission of my lifetime (I'm over 50) and the NDIS is. Say what you like about the woman but with a minority government she was able to manage our affairs and get things done. She was able to negotiate and run an inclusive agenda. A quality Abbott and Co seem not to have.

I beg to differ Tom1. The thousands of contractors across the country were able to continue working. Those wages were then spent into the economy and was shared about. An estimated 200,000 jobs were saved and those wages spent. People whom would have lost homes and businesses were saved. 

Many, many thousands of people relied on that stimulus to stay afloat. I have absolutely no problem with the stimulus spending into the domestic economy and I think their should be more of it but next time use monies garnered from our resources, and our superprofiteers.

Domestic stimulus is good for small business activity and the populous and can be easily targeted and is a way of dampening economic shocks and why not reap a larger cut of the huge rewards from our resources, energy and financial sectors as well as our science, research and development capabilities.

Remove some of the more generous entitlements, start cutting them from the top with the overriding message being if you are very well off indeed then no entitlements, you should be thankful that you are part of a society that creates the environment, encourages your success, and values you efforts with substantial monetary rewards.



 

You are cheering for the wrong side then Argus. Small business does well when people have money in their pockets and are confident enough to spend it. This government has undermined confidence by continually talking down our very strong and robust economy by fear mongering for cynical political purposes at every turn. 

This undermining of confidence has a huge impact on domestic economic activity and is the single greatest threat to our small business community. You want lower wages and less money in our domestic economy then no problems the LNP are doing just that, but do not believe for a second that austerity is good for small business. 

This government had choices to increase revenues from the very profitable big end of town multi national entities but has elected to instead fill that hole by reducing the amount of money in the hands of the people. Those very same people that are the small business mans bread and butter customers.

This government does not represent small business at all, it represents the big end of town oligarchs at the expense of everyone else.Yank, I agree totally and I would add that all lobbying should be done in an open public forum. No more behind closed doors crap, after all politicians are supposedly our representatives so any representations to politicians should be representations to the greater community for consideration and scrutiny.It doesn't stop at the border either. The wheeling and dealing in Queensland between miners, developers and government certainly has the same stench.It didn't take long for the usual nutters to try to divert the conversation to left v right, or other diversions such as Bill Shorten.

The topic of the article is Abbotts real want to send in the troops at the drop of a hat. Barry is right to point out that we have a reactionary PM who has basically a school yard bully personality that is of real concern. This is the first time I have heard of his very real inclination to sent troops to the Ukraine, and that in itself should worry all Australians as to his reactions in future diplomatic situations. Way more of a threat to peace and stability in our region than any psychopathic  individual(s) that may or may not exist in our society.

His continued Team Australia rants challenging our Islamic communities to prove that they are 'Australian' (Abbotts version of Australian) is simply stupid nationalistic Tea Party crap that can only feed into the very real feelings of some young Muslims in thinking they do not belong here.

Similar to the disenfranchisement of young Afro-Americans in the US this sort of crap can only lead to dangerous divisions in our community by encouraging bigots and racists to spread fear and hate throughout our society.

I get the distinct feeling that the LNP have formed the opinion that they need an international conflict to shore up their domestic vote. Nothing to do with right or wrong just cynical political motives.

We should all remember that this is the party that prosecuted the 'children overboard' lies and involved us in the Iraqi War based on known lies whilst at the same time gave Saddam Hussein over $400 million dollars as a bribe that no doubt contributed to his war machine against our own troops.

Think about it. Just how would you feel is you were a soldier fighting in Iraq and found out your own government gave the enemy all that cash.

These people have no morals just a balance sheet and a belief that they are born to rule. Disgraceful and disgusting. 
Francie   ".......in other words the girl was probably seeing dollars and telling lies."

You like I or anyone else here have absolutely no idea as to what happened on that night many years ago. I cast no aspersions on Bill Shorten here what so ever, I simply say your comment about this woman claims are quite disgusting.

I find this whole commentary disgusting. Lets stick to the subject at hand people, not innuendo and muck raking.In the 'seconds' John, in the 'seconds'. In fact he was more known for his boxing prowess than any academic achievements.

Goes to prove Barry's point really. School yard bully analogies are quite apt. Ask Joe Hockey, he knows better than most as to Abbott's bullying ways.

Abbott is a reactionary bullyboy and always has been. As another poster above states, a leopard does not change its spots. 

The concerning thing is that he is now Prime Minister which actually requires understanding, complex analysis and diplomacy, all traits he has not demonstrated during his political career. A statesman he is definitely not.Very well put 'nyknyk'. I would suggest given the opportunity many from the rabid far right would perform in much the same manner as the terrorists the are so fearful of. 

Timothy McVeigh and Anders Behring Breivik espoused the same stupidity and xenophobic fears and look how that ended.

nyknyk, we are arguing with xenophobic fringe dwellers whose fears are so deeply entrenched they can no longer see the woods for the tree's and twits like Abbott enable and encourage those same type of irrational fears that are used by propaganda merchants from all sides to justify their own ambitions of world domination. Pinky and the Brain anyone.  
I agree Gary, it is a tax grab but it also serves their ultimate purpose of breaking down Medicare to be replaced by the huge American Health Funds that hold the US medical system hostage. The same can be said of their plans for the privatisation of our public schools. It all about feeding the insatiable American Corporate plutocrats.This governments want is just to deny they have a problem and just push through without prosecuting any cohesive argument as to their agenda. 

An obvious example of this is their mantra of a 'budget emergency' when in fact it does not exist. Ask them about why they state a 'budget emergency' exists when leading economists disagree and they will go straight to the 'we have a debt and deficit disaster' mantra. Ask them to explain the 'debt and deficit disaster' mantra and they will answer 'we have a budget emergency' never once justifying either claim.

You will get similar diversionary tactics on Health, Education and Welfare policy. They simply do not answer questions. They just dishonestly spruik slogans and mantra's dictated by their record number of spin doctors.

IMHO this is because their ego's find it offensive for anyone to question their 'right to rule' beliefs no matter their intentions. Arrogant diversionary politics, they know no other way.

Couple this with their lies, and their lies upon lies, and we have a very dysfunctional government that in record time has disenfranchised the majority of the Australian community.

So much for a government for all Australians.Scott, I try to give them a bit of credit as to knowing what they are doing, but like yourself I find it difficult to see a consistent and cohesive narrative. 

I simply can't get my head around the very fact that they declare a 'budget emergency' then go about destroying quite legitimate revenue streams like the mining tax. Do they actually believe what they say?

Its obvious that neither Hockey or Abbott really know what they are doing which explains why they have basically outsourced policy development to the big end of town.

It also explains their want to talk in repetitious sound bites as when pushed they are unable to put together a cohesive argument. It also explains the record number of spin doctors they employ, probably the hardest working people in the parliament. 

They are simply media tarts and pretenders and have be shown to not have either the skills, or the capacity, to govern for all. A new election can not come soon enough.patarus: "divisive and slightly vindictive".

I agree with most of your post, but really, slightly vindictive, they are the most divisive and vindictive government in memory.

We must also remember Clive is a Liberal at heart. He may be a rogue, but he does still represent the majority of their views. 

Clive is to China what Abbott is to Scotland. Divisive, bigoted and arrogant.

Good luck to the Scots. I know they will do what is good for Scotland. Abbotts comments were indefensible and so was some of what Palmer said. 

The difference being Palmer was speaking ad lib under pressure from Tony Jones whilst Abbotts comments were pre considered and pre determined.

The conservatives in this country are being led by bigoted and divisive loudmouths. Abbott, Palmer, Brandis, Abetz, Lambie etc...

Truly concerning.We must remembers chips that Clive was an avid LNP supporter not that long ago. Too much corruption and too much influence from lobbyists for even Clive. 

Couple that with the endless line of conservatives that have distance themselves from the LNP since Abbott took over and we get a true picture of just how far right this present lot have shifted.

Even moderate conservatives know that this government is not to be trusted.

ps. Abbotts comments about Scotland no longer be friends of Australia if they vote for independence is by far more inflammatory than anything Clive has said about China.APM: The LNP are in lots of trouble when one of their most fanatical followers is out calling for Labor to show their hand so early in the election cycle. Oh wait, has not Abbott and Co been doing the same thing lately. Must be desperate time at LNP headquarters.

Its getting old APM, how about trying to defend this horrible budget. Oops, you can't.See that is your problem APM, you, like the LNP, are too busy looking in the rear view mirror whilst we are heading for a big crash with Tones at the wheel. 

Pass this budget and suddenly we will have skyrocketing crime rates and civil disobedience that has not been seen in Australia for many decades.

There are social consequences for draconian austerity measures especially since these austerity measures are not warranted as reflected by Glen Stevens from the RBA today.
For a change you are right john1, even Glen Stevens is saying that these draconian austerity measures are not warranted and that the budget needs to be looked at to address the structural deficit in the medium to long term.

He in no way endorsed the attack on our most vulnerable people built into this budget and in fact pointed out how unnecessary that attack is. Why else would a man of his calibre and in his position use the term "draconian austerity measures."

I think you will find his comments were more directed to the government than the opposition. He certainly wasn't talking about Labor, the Greens or Clive when he made that comment.

I also agree the longer Abbott and Co are in government the worse off we are. See how easy it is to take some ones comments out of context although I suspect you knew that. 

Oh dear John1 you have done it again.

My post represented an example of how you and others continually verbal good people like Glen Stevens, twisting their words and giving meaning where meaning does not exist. I stated this quite clearly in my post.

Lets get the facts right then.

You stated:  "There are people starting to line up now.......important people like the head of treasury and Glen Stevens from the reserve bank who are basically saying enough is enough with this budget impasse, there is a problem and something needs to be done."
as if Glen Stevens has some how backed this budget and is telling the opposition to get out of the way.

That is simply made up fantasy and a lie. Glen Stevens in no way commented on the budget impasse. In fact he refrains from such commentary.

He stated "I do not give gratuitous advice on fiscal policy, so I will refrain from going into detail. But I think we need a strategy that recognises that medium-term imperative, that recognises that the economy does not really warrant draconian fiscal tightening right now."

My interpretation of that when read in context is that there is no budget emergency thus there is no need to panic and implement draconian austerity measures right NOW.

He went on to say: "From where I sat, I did not think, really, that the budget was that draconian, frankly, in a macro-economic sense. I am not talking about this measure or that measure; I am talking about the pace of intended consolidation over a run of years."

He was talking about the general direction of the Budget and not individual measures. He offers no opinion on individual budget measures.

Like I said, your post verballed Mr Stevens to suit your argument and thus was dishonest and plainly wrong. My post was an example of how peoples words can be twisted and I openly stated this in my post. 

Just who is being dishonest here.
APM, it always amazes me how people like yourself that benefit immensely from the many, many improvements to our standard of living negotiated and gained by Unions on behalf of ordinary Australians over many years lambast Unions whilst at the same time reap the rewards.

You will find that anyone on over $100k in the car manufacturing sector were highly skilled workers. Just what is a fair days wage for those jobs APM? You seem to know it all. What would you pay them? First I would suggest you actually find out what they do for their money.

I don't see you rallying against the exorbitant rates of pay for government lawyers or spin doctors. I don't see you rallying about the excessive executive salaries or corporate board members remunerations. What about doctors and accountants.

Its called negotiation, and both parties negotiate and come to agreement just like anyone else. Only fools cannot see that.   

Have a look around the world, compare countries and then understand that it has been our Union heritage that has resulted in our high standard of living. 

If you want unfettered employer power then go elsewhere mate. I am sure you will be happy in a dog eat dog world. Just don't get old or sick.  
APM: Oh dear, those people from the middle east and their behaviour. Yep they all behave terribly and must be terrorists and have anti western values because, hey, they come from the 'middle east'. The Chinese are okay though, they behave differently from those from the middle east so hey they must have western values.

Of course Bob Carr and Richard Marles like Muslims so hey they must have anti-western values.

Just one question APM. What exactly do you see as 'western values'? Maybe it is to stereotype people from a particular region of the world as 'all the same' or could it be only those of a certain religious belief. Could those 'western values' be to say people are playing the racist card for no other reason that they display tolerance and inclusiveness in our society. 

Could those western values you talk of actually be your own personal values, and that your values do not reflect the human values that good people from all regions of this planet, never lone just the west, demonstrate.  

Your comments are both racist and bigoted and are disgusting.Here, here, Mongo. Never more apparent than when Abbott and Co continually mouthed platitudes prior to the election only to go back on their promises once elected.What a load of rubbish Brian. Talk about diversion. Your post lambasts those that oppose this Budget because you think they are "selfish and short-sighted". 

Labor, Greens, PUP and others have all given good and consistent reasons for their opposition to this budget and if the polls are to be believed these parties are in line with the majority wishes of the people.

It is the LNP that is being selfish and short-sighted with their ideologically driven agenda that exposes the many lies told prior to the election.

If they had been truthful with the Australia people prior to the election then I would agree that they would have a mandate to prosecute this budget, but the facts are they lied.

They have no mandate and should do the right thing and either rewrite the budget to represent their election promises or take it to the people in another election.

As far as Clive is concerned he is after all a Liberal and like the present LNP the use of Red Herrings as diversions is their main game.



Good idea's Coogara but alas this government has shown absolutely no inclination for such obvious measures. I would add that these idea's should have been the backbone of the budget in the first instance and not the callous attack on the most vulnerable in our society.

My wife and I on a combined income of well over $140k/yr are relatively well off and we can afford a bit more of the heavy lifting for the good of the country, but to ask those that can least afford it is plainly wrong.Its quite amazing just how many nutters the conservative side of politics produces. Clive is just another of an ever increasing list.Zany, you forgot about Abbott telling the Scots they will no longer be our friends if they vote for independence. Seems the LNP are now telling us who we can be friends with and whose company we should keep.Tories, Tea Party, Rednecks, Neo-cons are just a few very apt descriptions of the present LNP. The fraud is in calling themselves liberal when they are anything but. Great Liberal leaders of the past have all distanced themselves from this lot of far right wing plutocrats.

Abbott and Co are the ones that keep harking back to the good old days of Dames and Knights. Abbott and Co pine for the return of the days of Britannia ruling the waves. Gee if the Scots win independence then our PM has told us that they are no longer our friends.

Its interesting how the LNP supporters do not want to talk about the budget and concentrate on faux outrage to try to divert the conversation. Well 'giveitarest', as Bill Clintons successful campaign against George Bush senior told us, "its the economy, stupid." 

This Budget is a dud and no matter the sales pitch it will always be a dud.aGuy: I note you did not mention the budget or the economy. hmmm.

I have no objections to what ever you like to call the ALP, its completely up to you. It is you that believes the ABC should censor opinion that doesn't agree with yours. So much for free speech. 

Now as far as the SMH article you site, well lets look at how the ABC reacted to it. They didn't, simple as that. The only story about the rights and wrongs was aired on the Media Watch program. You should have a look. Its balanced and explains their position well. It also points out the many similar if not worse things have been published in the 'Australian' and the 'Daily Tele' denigrating the Palestinians yet you conveniently overlook those anti-Palestinian articles and cartoons. That's called hypocrisy.

Finally the word 'Tory'. Its entomology derives from the Irish for highway man, robber and was originally used as an accusatory term to describe those of a certain political persuasion as robbing from the poor to fill the coffers of the rich. Considering the budget, tory is a very apt and appropriate term to describe the present LNP.

Have a good day.They were limited to the 2 word "Team Australia" slogan because they blew the budget with the profligate 4 word "Operation Bring them Home" slogan. Stay tuned for the next 3 word slogan.

I got one, "Double Dissolution Now"Harry, "its the economy, stupid".

2010 election. 2 days prior to the election Abbott/Hockey deliberately lied about their election costing's describing them as being audited when in fact the explicit agreement they had with their accounting firm stated it was NOT an audit as it did not test the Abbott/Hockey assumptions it was based on. 

2013 election. Changed treasury assumptions to suit their mantra of a budget emergency and increased the cap on debt. (similar to 2010) Lied about spending on Education, Health, and Welfare as well as lied about cuts to ABC and SBS. Lied about 'no new taxes' and 'no surprises.

All lies were deliberate and premeditated. This is why their economic credibility is non exist and no matter the diversionary tactics by their dwindling number of supporters like you harry these fact will stay with them till the next election.

You lambasted Gillard for her unintended 'lie' yet you too easily brush over the many, many, lies of the present government. That is called hypocrisy. 

You lambast the ABC for publishing biased opinion pieces on an opinion site yet in the same breath you lambast them for not publishing every one of your personal biased opinions. That's called hypocrisy.

You argue for free speech yet you want the ABC to censure opinions that do not agree with yours. Once again that is called hypocrisy.

If you have a mirror handy I suggest you take a good hard look at it before casting aspersions upon others.This government is reaping what it has sewn. 4 years of talking down the economy and this negativity has taken its toll on all  Australians.

Domestically confidence is shot and rebuilding it will take some time. Abbott again out their talking of a budget crisis when we are all waking up to the fact that our economy is strong, it is our leadership that is weak.

This government has reduced budget revenue by billions and then bleats that, they don't want to, but have to, remove a lot of the welfare safety net because of reduced budget revenue. It makes no sense and has destroyed any economic credibility they claimed to have.I guess you don't want to talk about the budget Forrest. Seems a pattern amongst the dwindling numbers of LNP supporters. Try as you might, diversionary tactics only serve to show up your desperation.  

Just a reminder, the article is about economic management and the present lots trashing of any so called credentials they claimed in this area.

History shows us that Abbott and Hockey have never had an economic plan. It is not surprising that an economic policy dictated by the big end of town favours, well, the big end of town.Cormann was at Abbotts side today. Joe out, Mathias in. Abbott has made Joe the fall guy for the Budget and Cormann is positioning himself to fill the breach. I guess Joe is just not far enough to the right for the LNP leadership no matter how much he tries to transform himself into a nasty little bigot.

Just some advice Joe, go back to being Jovial Joe and challenge Turnbull for the leadership in a couple of months when Abbott is finally replaced. Either that or get voted out at the next election and spend a long time in opposition.

Ghandi, Mandela and Mother Theresa could not sell this budget nor would they want to. Julie Bishops task is easy. Just sabre rattle and agree with the yanks and the poms. Nothing to see here. She only stands out because of what she has not done. She has not done anything which is seen as better than what the domestic pollies have achieved.What is remarkable to me is the fact that one, just one honest politician, and this is seen as newsworthy. Mike Baird got where he is because of the stink of corruption and looks like he chose to wallow in the stench and dismiss the only breath of fresh air in the place. Says it all really.

As an aside, every Queenslander with any political interest at all can smell the same stench of corruption in the here and now, yet, we are powerless to stop it. We will no doubt pay bucket loads for the lawyers to sort it all out at a later date. As usual it will be after the damage is complete and political memories conveniently fade.

Its a disgusting merry-go-round yet no politician or party is honourable enough to actually implement change. They wonder why we dislike them so.Very true Bev, To those whom believe this to be unfair they need to take a good look at our history where as by the smaller population states have more than paid there way with their natural resources and beauty. Without WA, SA, Tasmania and Queensland, The population centres of Victoria and NSW would quite simply be small backwater colonies. Grow up people, we are a federation that has benefitted all states in different ways but equally. The Senate is the states house and has served our democracy very well indeed. Australia is the best country in the world. This is because of our system not in spite of it.

As far as giving business's 2:1 vote, what a ridiculous concept designed to ensure the continuation of corruption and theft of public resources. Good luck to those that will inevitably lose their house to make way for a McDonalds car park. Next we will see a large business getting 2:1 advantage over small business. Typical LNP crap. They are that arrogant that they don't even bother to try to hide their hate for the individual anymore. 

My suggestion is that everyone in Sydney should register as a small business. I think I will register 'whohasthefish.com' tomorrow because no doubt the LNP up here in Brisbane will try the same crap.Hi Gazza, seems you have sparked the Abbott crazy's into action. As with other crazy religious sects, and their revisionist provocateurs, the last resort of their grand poo bah is to lead them into an increasingly desperate delusional group think before their inevitable self destruction only to be remember as a dark brown stain on the countries proverbial jockstrap in the back pages of our history books. The start of the LNP death throes are upon us. Enjoy the ride.Actual Dandelion, under labour, debt went from $59.1 billion (left by Howard) to $280 billion. Also the future fund increased by $35 billion. Thus increased net debt attributable to Labor during those 6 years which did include the GFC was in fact $185 billion. It will be very interesting how Hockey spins the expected $51 billion black hole in his first budget. So much for a surplus in the first year and every other year as spruiked by Abbott and Hockey prior to the election. This all from the government of NO excuses.I agree Frank, gee if only we had some way of putting an international price on pollution whereas by the money raised is used to encourage energy usage and generation from clean renewable sources. We can only dream.Tammy, please stop talking as if you represent the beliefs and views of the families of the 38 Australians murdered on that day. You don't. The only family members I have seen in the press have indicated they would like all the BS and sabre rattling to cease to be replaced by cooperative policies to support the independent inquiry. This is not helped by Abbott's demands and empty threats toward Putin. I think the Dutch PM said it best when he said, he as a politician and a leader should refrain from statement that either inflame the situation or prejudice the outcome on the independent inquiry. Advice that I think Abbott should heed.Turn back the boats Tony.Your point is salient Ben but when does a deterrent turn into a punishment. On the point of the article, since the 'boats have stopped' why the need for the change in these laws other than to justify the removal of legal rights of those that are in fact genuine refugee's under the international conventions and thus international law. We are signed up to those conventions thus we are bound to apply said conventions. If we as a country disagree with the application of the convention then the proper course of action is to lobby for change within the structures of the UNHCR. What we are doing is akin to saying we don't agree with a particular law thus we don't have to follow it. The Australian government continually lambasts others for not adhering to international law and conventions yet are treating those laws and conventions as optional conveniences rather than binding agreements. If we do not wish to adhere to the UNHCR conventions then by all means remove ourselves from them as it exposes our hypocrisy to otherwise. We should not reap the benefits of being recognised as a good international humanitarian citizen if in fact we are not. Seems we talk the talk but the question is, do we walk the walk?That's not exactly correct reaver. I think you will find the International Courts would disagree, but playing semantic games with you is plainly a stupid diversion from the point, so I won't.

The point being, we as a nation signed up to these conventions and then go about our business as if these conventions mean nothing. Its a lot like the Japanese signing up to the international anti whaling conventions and then continuing to hunt whales. 

Considering we are dealing with people and not whales, our hypocrisy over our own adherence to international conventions, is disgusting. I challenge any government to go to an election with the platform of resigning from the UNHCR protocols. They should stop pretending to abide by humanitarian principles when, as far as refugee's are concerned, the reality is, they fail to display any.reaver, once again you are not totally correct, but semantics don't concern me. 

Is it not one T Abbott that implored Russia to respect UN resolutions as per MH17. Is it not both Labor and the LNP that used international conventions and courts to lambasted Japan over their whaling program.  

The point is that the hypocrisy of our government in their dealings with the rest of the world serves to both damage our reputation as international citizens and restrict our ability to have a say on world events. Our position of 'good will' in the world is diminished because of this continued inhumane policy. You may not have noticed but every now and then we do need to trade on that 'good will' for the good of our country and our people.

I guess nuance and diplomacy are lost on those that think in terms of 'black and white' and are so convinced by their own rhetoric that they actually believe they are the 'suppositories of all wisdom.'  
frangi, You may be correct that no one cares whether or not we are hypocrites as far as asylum seekers is concerned but I do and I would suggest I am not the only one. If we don't want to abide by the conventions then either lobby and act proactively to change the conventions or step back from them and resign from them. 

I believe we should be looking for a lasting humanitarian solution by lobbying other countries thru the UNHCR to take their fair share of refugee's and to assist in setting up processing centres in our region, that actually treat and process refugee's in a respectful and humanitarian way. At the present we cannot go down that path because of our own hypocrisy. This situation has led to the fact that we have to bribe poor countries to take refugee's whilst being told to get stuffed by the wealthy ones. Without different thinking we will be stuck with this ad hoc temporary fix for years to come. Genuine Asylum Seekers will continue to suffer at our hands. You can't honestly believe the present situation can go on forever. Lets try to get past the crap and strive to find proper long term solutions that reflect Australia's true humanitarian nature. So much for mature grown up debates.
Oh yes, an economic forum that should refrain from topics like future energy production and its effect on the environment. Nothing to see here people. Hey look over there, a yellow bellied black snake, oops, sorry I was mistaken, its a LNP politician. Sincere apologies to all the black snakes out there.Kerry, my mistake, I bow to your superior knowledge in the field of ophiology.Adman and seres. With the LNP's penchant for privatisation and big brother security, I can certainly see a future where we live in a Private Sector Police State.Peter the Lawyer,

My grade 10 English teacher taught me to be aware of those that flaunt their self professed superior intellect with many words that actually say nothing at all. Seems politicians and lawyers fit that category perfectly. Lots of BS with very little substance. 

tu es nihil magis a causidicus plenum crap.Keith (and all those other 'late to the argument, denialists)'.

Ah, yes the latest deniers diversionary argument. Its not pollution, its population, that's the problem.

Whilst population is a major concern the point of the debate is for future populations to use renewable, sustainable and NON polluting energies. 

The new argument seems to be, my pollution is okay, just stop everyone else from polluting and all is fixed. We will control our pollution by controlling others population. Yes, by all means, address population but do not use population growth as an excuse for doing nothing about pollution. 

Its your side of the argument that thinks Coal is the saviour of Humanity. 

I understand your point yank and do apologise to those that are truly concerned about Climate Change and Population growth. What I am very suspicious of is the motives of some that argue its not pollution, its population when in fact it is a combination of both. I feel we should be very wary of the science deniers that seek to diminish the pollution argument in preference for the population argument with statements like "our population is small thus we do not have to do anything about our pollution."

I remember the many twists and turns of the tobacco industry in their many incarnations of the 'look over there' or 'we need further studies' campaigns. I fear the same straw man arguments and diversionary tactics by the fossil fuel industry, designed to confuse the debate and to justify their endless procrastination. The 'no action' politics of the LNP and such.Unfortunately PoW, I fear a mature conversation, robust or otherwise, is not now possible because of Abbotts mouth. He had the moral high ground to exploit against Putin but blew that opportunity. It is hard to see him getting any serious or meaningful assurances from Putin when he has to open the conversation with "I am sorry about that 'shirtfront' thing Vlad, mate, wink, wink, nudge, nudge." Talk about letting Putin off the hook. Our PM is an idiot, simple as that.Agreed Yank. I think you would agree that to have a mature conversation, both parties need to be truthful and accurate in what they say. As reported widely today, Abbott has met with Putin and said to him, and I am directly quoting Abbotts official spokesperson :-

?The Prime Minister observed that when the United States had inadvertently shot down a civilian aircraft it had duly apologised and made appropriate restitution,?.

This statement was a foolish reference to Iranian Flight 655 shot down over Iranian Airspace in 1988 by the United States Navy guided missile cruiser USS Vincennes. Foolish because Abbotts take on events is totally incorrect.

The US has never apologised for this incident and in fact George Bush Senior at the time stated categorically that he would 'never' apologise for this incident 'no matter the facts'. The Iranians took the US to the international court and in 1996 (8 full yrs after the incident) the US paid compensation to Iran without admitting any legal liability. As a footnote, Captain William C. Rogers III was awarded the Legion of Merit for distinguished service whilst performing his duties as Captain of the USS Vincennes even though he was found to have failed to follow orders and was reckless in his duties on that day.

Once again we find Abbott making a fool of himself, and us, because he has not done his homework and cited an incident that is a blight on the US Navy. He and his minders were not wise to use this incident as an example of what Putin should do. Lazy research and stupid example.

To those baying for blood over flight MH17 they should first research the shooting down of Flight 655. Those involved were never charged with murder even though their level of available intel and info at the time was the best available on the planet. They ignored orders and acted recklessly. The US tried to cover up and procrastinated for years not cooperating with investigators and, to this day, they have not released all relevant information, and, as far as I am aware, they have NEVER apologised.

You would think that after the stupid 'shirtfront' comment, at the very least Abbott would get it right. He and his office are a total embarrassment. Putin would just be laughing at his ignorance and I doubt the US would appreciate Abbott highlighting the fact that they were responsible for the 'murder' of 290 civilians and have never admitted responsibility for it.

Talk about giving Putin a free kick. What an idiot Abbott is.atomou, The facts of the matter is that Bishop has done a reasonable good job in reference to MH17. This makes her the best performing Minister on the governments benches. Whilst the LNP has a very low base to measure performance by, she is in fact the standout. Pity her strengths as seen in her actions over MH17 have not been evident over her 'missing in action responses' to Myanmar, Gaza, Irian Jaya, Ebola etc....corkycarroll, when are the conservative twits going to realise that the problem is not the spending side of the equation, which by the way, is well down on the Howard years, but instead its the receipts that has reduced dramatically since the GFC. A problem exacerbated by the removal of the Mining Tax and the Carbon Tax whilst increased spending on Direct action and PPL. Hockey's and thus our problems are of this governments own doing.Damien, Such a stupid and uninformed comment. I think you will find that the yank has been very consistent in his opposition to our involvement in this fruitless and stupid war. The only involvement we should have in such conflicts are under the auspices of the UN. 

For the record it does not take this conflict to highlight the lack of humanity and the xenophobic nature of the Abbott government. Asylum Seekers, Burka Ban, Terror Laws, Ebola, Reduced foreign aid, Cory Bernardi, Bronwyn Bishop, George Christensen, etc.... etc....Yep, and up steps our Tones, sabre rattling and threatening to shirt front Putin. What a dangerous buffoon our PM actually is.reaver: What a load of apologist rubbish. Its all the electorates fault because corrupt politicians and developers etc.... have acted unethically. A real 'blame the victim' mentality. Interesting how the conservatives make excuses for business and LNP government corruption yet one or two corrupt Union officials and the whole ALP and Union movement should be shut down. Conservative hypocrisy see's no bounds.So in essence Chris, you are saying that corruption is just part and parcel of our governing structures and we should just accept it. Nothing to see here people, look over there. Chris, you say:

"But perhaps politicians aren't available for purchase, and the examples we have of large returns for small amounts of money lobbying are, in truth, just coincidences - the government was likely to make that decision anyway".

I call BS mate. Your couching of this criminal behaviour as a "return on an investment" gives us all an insight into the mind of lobbyist such as the IPA. You see this unethical and corrupt behaviour in terms of a business transaction and nothing else, then you expect us all to do the same. Interesting the IPA and such entities always spruik the necessity for a free unencumbered market, yet are quite happy for that free market to be 'fixed'. The hypocrisy is disgusting.Oh dear me. Have you not been paying attention to the NSW ICAC inquiry or the Commonwealth Banks forays or would you prefer to take the IPA's approach and excuse and couch this CRIMINAL corrupt behaviour as simply an investment opportunity.The illogical hatred of all things Union and their puppy eyed kowtowing to the big end of town Business Unions, will not allow for such thoughts Kerrie. Amazing that those that benefit from Unions the most hate them the most. I will bet my bottom dollar Peter the Lawyer, if he is actually a Lawyer, is a member of some sort of Union, he just refuses to recognise the fact. The BCA, NCA, CPA, AMMA, IPA, AMA, gosh even the LNP are all Unions. The hypocrisy of the conservatives blinds them to the reality.Attacking the retirement plan of so many politicians will never get traction Bev. Good sentiment, improbable reality.Agreed yank. The Murdoch Media led re invention of Julie Bishop as some sort of feminist champion is a bit rich. Really people what has she done other than to kowtow to "the men in blue ties" brigade. The ever reliable token woman that will never rise above the title of loyal deputy. Until she stands up and calls out twits like Abbott and his Catholic Boys Club for their man-centric actions she cannot be taken seriously on issues of equality for women. Does anyone seriously believe she will ever be the leader of the Liberals. Give us a break.Spot on Yank, to try to create some sort of comparable measure with foreign defence personnel is in itself a ridiculous concept. Don't our politician unequivocally state that they are the best in the world. No one from the government is saying they are overpaid. What Abbott, Hockey el at are saying is that they chose not to budget for a larger pay rise. They promised our defence personnel to retaining wage rises in line with inflation and not to remove entitlements. They lied. Not only is their real value of their wage being reduced but they are also losing xmas leave entitlements. For the free marketeers out their, this is at a time of war when arguably their value to us as a country has increased. Its another broken promise, simple as that, but on the other hand, a lot of people can easily argue, 'Why should the ADF be immune from this governments deceit and dishonesty?', after all their consistency in screwing over all wage earners equally whilst assisting the big end of town should be admired, shouldn't it?the yank, your conclusion is spot on. Graham, if you have nothing to add then go away. Forrest, I would suggest you take your own advice and look a bit deeper into the issue. Its is logical to say that the value of ADF personnel to our country increases during times of conflict. Considering the increased emphasis on fighting terrorism and the deployment of troops, it is arguable that the ADF should receive pay rises to reflect their increased value to us as a society, and thus, a pay decrease (in real terms) is somewhat of an insult. Seems the LNP's free market ideology is somewhat selective thus instead of a true ideology it can be best described as a convenience. Please explain why you feel increased responsibility should result in decrease wages or is it that a 'mature debate' is a matter of convenience as well.Zulu, do you realise Defence spending has increased by about $10 billion over the forward estimates by this lot. Do you realise Abbott threatened to shirtfront Putin, you know the man with his finger firmly on the button of those missiles. Do you realise any increase in our Defence spending causes an equivalent response from our neighbours to the north perpetuating an Arms race in our area. Do you realise our best form of defence is to sponsor diplomacy and friendship and to lobby to demilitarise the planet. Do you realise we can never win an Arms race. Do you realise we have not acted defensively since 1945.clete, says "Interesting, given Lambie's positioning and statements on other subjects, that she enjoys the support of the usual Lefties on this site."

You obviously do not understand that those from the 'left' of your far right position, are a bit more nuanced in their judgements. They tend to look at the policy or the argument rather than the messenger. Lambie's message here is in line with my values hence she gets my support on this particular subject. Abbott cops flack because his messages and policies are horrendous. If he ever comes up with a decent policy or message, I for one, will be the first to congratulate him. I won't be holding my breath though.True Liberal, whilst I agree with your opposition to these laws and your apt description of the present LNP as not being liberal at all, I totally disagree with your view of the Australian left as those that represent the views of Stalin.

In fact it was the Labor Party that denounced those Stalinistic policies before Whitlam came to power and has ever since been the champions of liberalism and freedoms in this country. The reality is that Labor has had to fight tooth and nail for these freedoms against opposition from the so called Democratic Liberal Party. Our history shows us that the truth being, thanks to Labor, we have Deregulation of our banks, an open market economy, removal of Tarriffs, Recognition of Aborigines, Freedom of Association, Freedom of religious beliefs, Equal rights for Women, Voting rights for Aborigines and Women, Equal opportunity for education and employment, Anti discrimination Laws, etc..., Basically a fair go for all principle which has served Australia very well indeed. True liberalism. Comparing the Australian left to that of Stalin is totally wrong and very objectionable. Please do not spread this falsehood anymore. 
I am afraid you are probably right Anne. The so called liberals in this country seem to believe libertarianism starts and stops at the right to be a bigot when in fact a true libertarian principle would be to defend the right of people to go about their business freely without being subjected discrimination by bigots.Bear, you are neglecting to mention that those 21st century weapons are being supplied by USA, China, Russia, England, France and Italy. Even we are supplying the Peshmerga, a terrorist organisation. You are also neglecting the very fact that this is happening on the other side of the planet, so sleep well petal, the totality of that 21st century weaponry discovered here in Australia, in the hands of our home grown terrorists this year has been confiscated. One very dangerous ornamental sword and one knife.the yank. I have got to pull you up on that one. Gillard/Conroy did not try to silence the Murdoch Press or even censor them as was widely reported. Instead they tried to hold the Press to account for their many many published lies which ended with the industry itself admitting to its failings and the promise of a more active and punitive self regulator. You are right of course to point out the Hypocrisy of the LNP and their supporters with the intro of theses Laws. I too am a traditional Labor voter but their support of theses laws and their support for another stupid war in Iraq has also cause me to look elsewhere and to tell the truth the best performer in the Parliament at the moment is Senator Scott Ludlam from the Greens.I don't think the hypocrisy of this government will be lost on the Egyptian Foreign Minister. I would not be relying on Julie Bishop for any help if I was Mr Greste.True Liberal. You are correct. Separation of Powers is a concept the LNP seems to struggles with. From their 'Chaplaincy Program' to their interference in the CMC in Queensland and this political lobbying by public servants we should all be concerned. Their total lack of support for the Royal Commission into Child Abuse and their over the top enthusiastic support for the 'Rudd' Royal Commission and the 'Gillard/Shorten' Royal Commission shows they are quite willing to use our judiciary to prosecute their political opponents and their own political agenda. These people are the worst government in living memory and should be removed immediately. If Peter Cosgrove had any heart he would do a 'Kerr' on this lot.I must be mistaken Forrest, I thought Separation of Powers was a principle here in Qld but then again looking at the Newman government they obviously agree with you that they are a dictatorship that have every right to interfere with the independence of the judiciary. As far as the Chaplaincy program is concerned my view is that religion has no place in public schools. Government sponsored religious brainwashing in our educational system is in itself an affront to Separation of Powers principles. I see you did not comment on the lack of support from this government for the Royal Commission into Child Abuse which has been dominated by the Catholic Churches sponsoring and covering up of the crimes of abusers. It surely must worry even the most belligerent conservatives that this government absolutely refuses to accept the Catholic Church has been complicit in abhorrent criminal behaviour by its representatives. Just imagine how much they would be jumping up and down if Unions were implicated in such blatant criminality. Surely this is the most important inquiry in Australia at the moment yet this government would rather concentrate on using the extraordinary powers of RC's to prosecute political witch hunts against Unions and political opponents. Like I said, the LNP gives very little credence to Separation of Powers issues.OUB. On the face of it these allegations seem to have merit. I would suggest a Royal Commission. Much more evidence of wrong doing by this government over these allegations that those against either Kevin Rudd or Julia Gillard and far more important issues to be investigated.The whole thing should be held on an island somewhere. Easier and cheaper to secure and less inconvenience to the locals. Just how much is this costing us? Just how much is it inconveniencing us? and WHY? They could just as easily meet on a Aircraft carrier in the middle of the ocean if their security is so goddamned important. What an absolute waste of money and resources.Spot on Nova, and living in Brisbane I would like to add, Why don't they have their meeting on an island in the middle of the Pacific or somewhere much easier to safeguard rather that impose the associated huge cost and inconvenience of holding it in a major populated area. Plainly its more about the ego's of the host countries and their reps than the meeting itself. Seems to me that its one hell of a cost just to promote, in this case, Brisbane to the world. A massive waste of money and resources, just to be told we all need to tighten our belts. Seems the ruling classes don't mind wasting money hand over foot for their own comfort no matter the inconvenience and cost to the local citizenry.
Yep GRF, why don't you go and ask the people of Bangladesh about sea level rises or maybe Pakistan and India about the floods and droughts that are becoming increasingly more severe. Your post is just repeating a flawed vested interest mantra without giving regard to the reality as expressed by the vast majority of scientists world wide on this topic. Just because a vested interest says it does not make it true. Considering Coal Generation has been around for a very long time just how much more time do we have to wait for Coal to save Humanity?GRF and the rest. I made my little comment and away we go in the never ending circular debate on AGW. Well, I hate to inform everyone but THE SCIENCE IS SETTLED as far as our politicians, yes even the LNP and PUP, are concerned. The debate has moved on to what we do to reduce emissions.
For all the fans of Coal out there, Coal produces emissions and to increase Coal reliance is to increase emissions. Diametrically opposite to our aims and targets. For all those adult LNP supporters out their your argument should be with the LNP. They are the ones wasting $2.5 billion per year on trying to reduce emissions whilst at the same time supporting policies that actually increase emissions. They are the ones wasting money on a committee to develop an ETS that they say they will NEVER adopt. So in essence IF the LNP supports are ADULT and without HYPOCRISY then they would be rallying against this government for the massive waste of money and resources during a massive BUGET EMEGENCY. For all the arguments about whether AGW is real or not, this facts remain. This government is neither ADULT or CONSERVATIVE but instead a group of right wing nutters who will do and say anything to prosecute their vested interest agenda without giving a rats bum about the economy or the people.Ben, You complain about not being able to have a mature debate yet you start your comments by labelling anyone that disagrees with Abbott (you) as [sic]immature lefties. Grow up Ben, you are the one perpetuating the left/right crap. You do not need to be one of 'those from the left' as you put it to think the bloke that threatened to 'shirtfront' Putin or ran from parliament, like a school boy, to avoid voting is incapable of mature debate.Bulldust, the Greens are opposed to the LNP Petrol Excise increase because of a matter of principle. Something that is definitely lacking in the LNP. Increase the price of fuel whilst increasing the need for fuel is both anti people and anti climate. The Greens position is that they will support this increase IF the money is spent on public transport which decreases the need for more cars on the road and thus less emissions. Its a principled position which is both good for US the people as well as good for the environment. It makes perfect sense. Sure we can build 8 lane highways everywhere and vastly increase the number of foreign built cars on our roads and face the same pollution dilemma faced by Beijing etc... Air pollution kills over 1600 people a year in our cities alone, 400 more than the national road toll. With the LNP policies that number will rise along side and in excess of the road toll. Public transport in Australian cities is dismal on world standards getting worse every day and not being addressed. Stupid is as stupid does, describes the LNP government and their policies perfectly.Bulldust, you need to take a closer look with a fresh approach.

The Greens judged that better and increased public transport infrastructure outweighed increased fossil fuel reliant transport infrastructure that promote, wait for it, fossil fuel usage. For years the Greens have been lambasted for punitive policies that raise the cost of living. This time round they have elected to pursue an alternative policy agenda instead of their usual punitive style.
The Greens should be applauded for their lateral thinking as they have shown a more nuanced and people friendly agenda rather than their past 'price it out of existence' policies, which in itself over many years has resulted in mixed environmental successes with negative political impacts. Nothing wrong with changing course by taking the people with you and putting up alternatives is there?George. Yep blame the Greens mate. Just because you cannot understand the logic, or is it, refuse to understand the logic does not make their position illogical. It says more about some peoples inability to understand thing of even the slightest complexity. More roads, more cars on the road, more emissions v's more public transport, less cars on the road, less emissions. Does that make it easier.How about you take a cut in your income for the good of the country cathy. Yeah right, didn't think so. How about focusing your rage on our overprice non union labour market at the high end of town and their many many perks that cost our economy billions. Interestingly those manufacturing companies still could afford to pay board members and executives, lawyers and consultants in the millions. Your rage is misplaced because the facts are that the Unions represent the lower end of the wages market.You stick to your Brief Comment mate because Climate Change is neither brief or confined to a 'last election' agenda. Its not a matter of the 'true believers' brigade because all parties including the LNP say they believe in 'doing something' to reduce emissions. The real question is 'what to do?'. The three options put to us by our politicians have been 1.Carbon Tax, 2.ETS and 3.Direct Action.

All economists tell us that Abbotts Direct Action Policy is the most expensive way of reaching our 5% reduction target and unlike an ETS, does not set up the framework for further reductions in the future. The debate has moved on from whether or not we need to 'do something' to how much is 'doing something' going to cost us. A vote for Direct Action is a vote for the most expensive way of achieving our targeted outcomes. Anyone that thinks they are better off because their electricity price has come down a bit is refusing to see the reality that Direct Action is costing us all much more through our taxes. Save a bit here and pay a lot there. It really is a stupid policy.Swan dive. You need to understand that denialists have lost that argument. The science is settled and as far as I am aware the Greens, PUP, ALP and yes your beloved LNP all have policies to tackle AGW. The debate has moved forward to which method is best to reduce emissions. Your beloved LNP after belatedly admitting that they need to do something have selected the most expensive method. Not only are they late to the party they have stuffed up the solution. Unbelievably stupid policy. If you had a problem with the cost of an ETS or for that matter a Carbon Tax then you should be absolutely livid about Abbotts Direct Action Policy that is far more costly and far less effective. Save a few pennies on electricity, and pay a pound in tax, is the reality of Direct Action.Alfie, it depends how you define 'victory'. Wasn't it Abbott's twin idiot, George W Bush, that celebrated 'victory' in Iraq. How's that particular 'victory' going?

As far as Climate change is concerned, all parties have committed to a 5% reduction in our emissions. That being settled, the debate has now moved on to how we actually achieve our target. The fact is that the Abbott Direct Action model is universally recognised as the MOST EXPENSIVE way of doing so. Seems like a very hollow victory indeed when you actually look at the facts. So much for responsible adult government.
Spot on whogoesthere, Direct Action is a 2.5 billion dollar Carbon Tax. For some there is a silver lining, because the Hockeys leaners, whom don't pay tax (yeah right), now don't have to pay for the Direct Action whilst all those ever dwindling Hockey lifters do (karma anyone). All economists recognise this is the most inefficient and expensive way of achieving our 5% reduction goals. Many experts are now telling us that $2.5 billion will only result in a 1% reduction in emissions, well short of the 5% target. If you didn't like Gillards 'Carbon Tax' the facts are that you are now paying much more for Abbotts ineffective Direct Action. With decisions like this no wonder Joe reckons we need to raise the GST.PTL, Then I take it as a right winger and a free marketeer you will be jumping up and down about this Direct Action anti free market policy that all economists and true free marketeers tell us is the most expensive way to achieve our 5% reduction target. Will you now call out Abbott for his policy or are you just another right wing hypocrite? You can't have it both ways Peter.Too right Ron, I have got an old bomb in the shed, its a 1997 Toyota Cor... hang on there's a knock at the door......Yep, its all about delays and procrastination designed so as no action is ever taken as represented by Clive's ETS set at zero. Meanwhile big business garner billions from the government to do what they should and must do anyway. That being to invest in efficient and sustainable energy usage. It is a ridiculous set of circumstances that we as taxpayers are paying for private enterprise infrastructure that directly benefits the shareholder.  We have been conned people, thanks to the corrupt recalcitrant's that occupy the government front benches.Years of misinformation, vested interest politics and a dishonest MSMedia have taken it toll on the Australian people yank. Thank god for the ABC and its balance. As an anecdote, I heard my 30yr old son and a couple of his mates at a BBQ at my place the other day talking about how scary it was that Muslims had swords in their homes. They all work in an office building in Brisbane and get their news from the Courier Mail and commercial channels. They had all heard about the "sword" found during the terrorist raids in Sydney but none had heard that it was a plastic replica. I had to educate them and remind my son that I had a metal replica sword in my shed that he had stupidly bought when he was 20, because it was cool. Seems even the most educated are not immune from fear mongering and bias reporting from the MSM.The yanks point was quite valid as per the discussion Forrest. Did you wish to debate like an Adult or would you prefer to troll? 

This government is a farce as far as the climate debate is concerned. The ABC is right to question their 'yes we believe we need to do something about AGW" and their true belief that "its all crap" and "no action required" response, other than of course to line the pockets of their big end of town mates.

The question is Forrest do you prefer a Carbon Tax, an ETS or Direct Action. You do realise just about all economists recognise as fact that the direct action model is the least cost effective way of achieving our targets. Opposition for the sake of opposition at the tax payers expense. So much for the Adults in charge.
Once again thanks for the levity Wry. Unfortunately, I am afraid sarcasm is lost on the humourless. Your post are a welcome and constant reminder that, as Nova Peris put it today "the sun will come up again in the morning", no matter the smog of Conservatism that presently shrouds the place.Forrest, maybe the answer to your question is, well, how can I put this nicely, oh yeah, irrelevant. Think about it and get back to me. Take 30 years. Please.Speaking of full flight, who can forget Pyne and Abbott running from the chamber in an attempting to avoid their responsibility of actually voting. Can someone remind me what we actually pay them for? We also should not forget Abbotts threat to 'shirtfront' Putin to then subsequently get Julie Bishop to smooth things over because he could not back it up. Childish and weak on both counts. They are an absolute embarrassment. Anything but adult it would seem.Considering the fact that the big business benefit from a highly educated population then dump Abbotts Paid Parental Leave thought bubble , keep the 1.5% tax on big business and use $1.1 billion over 3 years of the $5.5 billion per year saved to put Uni's back on the same footing as they were. Hell, there would even enough money left over to add another billion/year to the Uni's and pay for Gonski at the same time. This government has choices yet they would have us believe they do not. Never before have we seen a more dishonest lot warming the government benches.Certainly is a difficult question Yank. I think from what I know on the subject, which I admit is very little, these farmers should hold to account Meat and Livestock Australia whom (please correct me if I am wrong here) were responsible for Animal welfare and treatment standards. A prime example of an industry self regulating body failing in its duty of care to its members. How much responsibility and whether or not the Federal Government acted in good faith will no doubt be tested in court. In saying that the industry itself should not be allowed to abrogate its responsibility by blaming the government for its own failings.Classic case of shooting the messenger gd. For someone that can invent any reason to hate the ABC you spend a awful lot of time here. Next you will be telling us the ABC has a 'Cow' bias.Bill. I think you will find 'the yank' was addressing the point made in the article about the comments made by Josh Frydenburg. Did you read the article Bill or did you just scroll down to 'the yank's post so as to prosecute a preconceived agenda. In todays parlance that's called trolling. Just saying.?I think it would be folly to expect that women will ever dominate or even approach equal representation in a large number of areas simply because their aptitudes, abilities and interests are different for physiological reasons?Ann, my previous post was a direct quote word for word from our Minister for Women, one Tony Abbott. I was being flippant.Gee I was under the impression that WMD's had something to do with it. So Honesty Johnny Howard and the LNP lied. Who would have thunk it?rb, neo-liberalism is very consistent with Labor Party policies. Its the neo-conservatives that represent a threat to our federation. The Liberal Nation Party coalition is anything but liberal.

For mine, our federation has served us very well indeed. We should be careful in believing we need to change our federation because we have a particularly bad lot of politicians when in fact we should be changing the politicians not the federation."We should be taking a more inclusive approach, writes Brad Elphinstone."

This government is anything but inclusive. Divisive, fear mongering, dishonest, disingenuous, elitist, older bigots is an apt description.mike, Team Australia on the face of it seemed an inclusive concept, but like any new concept we must dig much deeper to see the true meaning of the designer. 

Team Australia according to Captain Abbott is a 'with us' or 'against us'  construct that leaves no room for dissenters. Your either fully behind Abbotts vision of Australia or your against it. I do not believe in any god and do not believe anything Abbott has to say. Guess I am not part of Abbotts Team Australia and gladly never will be. You may blindly follow this idiot into conflict and divisiveness but not me. I expect my leader to be brave, inclusive, intelligent, progressive, honest and honourable. Attributes Abbott definitely lacks. No thanks, not for me.Still neglecting to acknowledge the oil crisis which at the time caused world wide economic pain of which Australia was not immune. Couple that with the fact that the Murdoch News machine went on the most dishonest media campaign in our history. Murdoch's own journalists went on strike because of his editorial interference and dishonest campaign against Whitlam. An economic crisis coupled with a fear mongering media campaign (sound familiar) which scared the country into paralysis for the Frazer years and it was not until Hawke that Australia got moving again. You really do need to get a reality check Ben.TL. I disagree with your view about conservatism. Personally as a progressive I feel its better to try and fail than not to try at all, but I do recognise the merits of a careful and measured conservative approach. IMHO the problem we have at the moment with our political class is the fact that Labor are afraid to fail and the LNP are arrogant and simply do not listen to expert advice. Thus the Labor Party are frozen with fear from promoting a progressive agenda whilst the Conservatives ideological agenda is neither careful nor measured. We see both parties with conflicting policies and messages that represent a hotchpotch of policy driven by spin doctors and vested interest (one in the same) rather than a consistent logical narrative.TL. Please don't get me wrong, I am absolutely disgusted by the Abbott government and the lies they continually tell. I am also very disappointed in the present Labor leadership, especially on these 'anti terror' and 'foreign fighter' laws crap. My point being conservatism in itself is not bad. Like I said I prefer a progressive approach but to judge all conservatives on this present lot of ideologically corrupt Tea Party lying fanatics is a bit harsh. I do genuinely appreciate and sympathise with your judgement of the conservative side of politics. Pity the libertarian tag has been hijacked by imposters.Ted, its very concerning that Abbott as our Prime Minister refused to condemn the long line of Conservatives breaking the rules but instead chose to attacked the rules. Seems breaking the rules is not a problem for our Tones, its just getting caught doing so is a bit of an inconvenience. This whole episode exposes the hypocrisy of the LNP especially considering the way they acted in the Thompson and Slipper saga's.The sooner the old man either steps down and retires or just dies then the better as far as I am concerned. The Murdoch press has had far too much influence over our political classes for far too many years as seen from the freedom of information release in the US recently the shows that Rupert Murdoch predicted (or caused) the dismissal of Gough Whitlam a full 10 months prior to the event. He even predicted when, why and by whom. Does cast a new light on that particular undemocratic episode in our history. 

Time for Malcolm Frazer to fess up and tell us all what transpired in 1975 to bring down a democratically elected government. The similarities between the destruction of Whitlam and more recently Gillard raises many questions of interference in our democratic processes that point more to a selection of a government by a powerful media mogul rather than a fair election by the people. Hence we end up with an idiot like Abbott.
Take the mickey all you like Ben but at the end of the day it is Rupert Murdoch whom dictates Australian government policy, with Tony Abbott as his puppet. The irony of a lawyer, whom supports Abbott, talking about 'class' borders on the hysterical.
Damn that democratic process that was subverted in '75 because a megalomaniac spoilt brat didn't get his own way. The again I am happy to bow to your superior knowledge as to the mental machinations of that of a spoilt brat. 

Ah Ben, too tough an issue eh. Raving on about free speech and defending Bolts right to be a racist and a bigot and now its your side changing the rules and attacking free speech its all of a sudden too tough an issue to handle. mmmExactly Ben. To Tony Abbott, Murdoch's opinions are far more important than yours or mine. Why don't you write him and ask?Maybe young Lachie is a bit worried about ASIO looking at the internal machinations of the Murdoch family empire. Could be very enlightening indeed.Too right maddy, I look forward to the day our 20 billion dollar Medical Research fund can be used to buy weapons to keep those filthy virus ridden hoards out. No need for a cure when you can quarantine. Go Team Abbott, oi, oi, oi.Ah yes Giles, that's the problem, those that do know what they are talking about state quite categorically that we need to attack this virus at its source and the only way to do that is with 'boots on the ground' to borrow an Abbott phrase. I suggest its the government that does not know what it is talking about which is becoming more apparent by the day. David Cameron, the British PM, today has implored more action from European Countries and stated quite clearly that we must do more at the source and we must do it now. President Obama is saying the same thing. It is Australia that is out of step with the international community on this issue. Get a grip mate, even if Ebola was to enter Australia, it is highly unlikely, almost impossible for it to become a pandemic here. 

The 30 hour flight excuse is simply crap and does not stand up to scrutiny.Nyrang, I suspect you are right in every way. The government is acting in its own interest beyond that of any humanitarian obligations. That then brings into focus the legitimacy as to the professed humanitarian reasons for sending troops to Iraq. It also says a lot about their low opinions and judgement of the Australian people. Any which way you look at it this government is bereft of any moral imperative or humanitarian agenda and are plain and simple pandering to fear and xenophobic sentiments they themselves have fostered within the community. Really people, is this the type of government we want? Is this the type of government we voted for?Theos, is this what it has come to. We measure political skill by how much fear they peddle, how many lies they tell, how deceitful they are, how immoral they act. If we have such low expectations of our politicians then we should not complain when they fill those expectations so completely.
Well said Wry, your devotion to all that is satirical is, as always, very humorous. I am unsure whether it would please you or not to know that your daily dose of wit does put a 'wry' smile on my face.Spot on R&amp;B, Hewson is probably the last of the progressive liberals. He backed an ETS and warned the party of the rise of the hardline right religious element in NSW.  

The RET is being wound back for no other reason than to shore up investment in Coal energy whilst the rest of the world is going in the other direction. Pure madness and economic suicide. The sooner any true liberals have the gumption to stand up for their party and Australia the better. Turnbull was well placed at one stage but like Costello did not have the ticker. He has no chance now and neither does the Party at the next election.

GRF : I have an Electrical Engineering Degree as well as a Electrical Trade Certificate and I cannot make any sense of your post. I suggest you rewrite it.

First you say it matters not how many Giga Watt Hours you generate its the work done in Kilo Watt Hours that's important. Huh? They measure the same thing, 1 Giga Watt Hour = 1,000,000 kilo Watt Hours. (also its a little as in kWH's)

Then your rave about base load without giving any consideration to the whole range of storage technologies that are available in the hear and now. 

Then you go on about the losses and inefficiencies of Coal that compare unfavourably with renewables.

I can only surmise that you are either drunk or you do not understand what you are talking about. Please research before posting, so as not to embarrass yourself further, and please keep up with modern available technologies.I noticed the LNP in parliament today saying that power bills in Queensland have been reduced by 9.5%. Brisbane must not be part of Queensland because I have seen no such change to my bill. Has anyone else seen a drop? Just wondering whether they are making things up again.John, like I said, I have heard the rhetoric but I haven't seen any reduction yet. Check your bill and get back to me. I ask again, has anyone seen an actual reduction in their energy bill and is it what has been claimed?In total dollars, the Coal industry gets more, but then again they produce more. The true cost of coal fired generation is not restricted by including subsidies alone. The costs of the adverse effects on the climate and the atmospheric pollution of which are pushed down the road for future generations are hard to quantify but never the less true and real costs that are not considered in todays pricing. An increase in severe weather events and sea level rises are very costly indeed. In the long term my guess is that renewables are cheaper. Coincidently my guess coincides with the best modelling and prognosis of the majority of scientists and economists around the world. Don't take my word for it though, feel free to actually research for yourself.It makes sense Gary, we wash it here and dry it there, then its clean ain't it.Simply ignoring the true cost of coal and overlooking the subsidies to the industry does not make them go away John. I take it that you are quite happy for your descendants to pay for the clean up of your mess John.Zing : 1. Even a 'lefty' like myself cannot see a connection between our foreign policy and the attack on the Canadian Parliament. Maybe, it is their foreign policy that contributed to this idiots reasons for the attack but alas like you I doubt I am in a position to make that or any other claim of what happens in Canada.

As far as 2 and 3 are concerned, well, I would suggest those points are just a product of some nutter's imaginings. Just who again is your source.

ps. I value personal liberty AND the safety of others. They are not preclusive idea's.Not all Australians Yank. Mainly the nutters and the 'rabid right' mate, or are they one and the same group.Be careful frangipani, others will read your post and use it as an excuse to demonise a whole religion.'frangipani', I was being flippant and I unreservedly apologise for any unintended offense. You posts are always thoughtful and thought provoking and for that I congratulated you. I agree with your sentiments 100%.Dave, yes fear is a powerful thing. Barry Cassidy writes today about the fear politics and media that has infested the Australian parliament and society for many years and its negative effects on us all. 

Michael Moore (like him or not) in his documentary 'Bowling for Columbine' delved into the difference between Canadian society to that of the US. He explored the fact that in Windsor, Canada, pop 216,000 they had one gun related murder in a particular year whilst 1 mile away across the river in Detroit, USA, pop 660,000 there were 353 gun related murders in the same corresponding period. On further investigation he concluded the difference between the two cities, and for that matter the two countries was the never ending 'fear' politics and media in the USA compared the relevant absence of such politics and media in Canada.

Fear is a powerful thing and it can infect societies and governments alike. Hopefully Canada does not go down the same path as the Yanks in reference to these events. It takes more courage to stand up to fear than to succumb to it.If I used my work email paid for and set up by my employer then yes they have every right to 'go through' them.

The bigger question is that Spurr has made submissions to the national curriculum debate that now can be looked at through the prism of his personal opinions which are not at all flattering.

After reading through his email communications I do not in any way subscribe to the notion that this was 'linguistic' banter or 'satirical' writings. I make no apology for my personal judgement of the man as an elitist, a racist, a sexist and a bigot. In my humble opinion the man is not fit to teach in any capacity what so ever and definitely not the right person to contribute to our national curriculum structures.

I agree that the release of these emails to the media should be investigated for breaches of the law but I do congratulate those involved because I feel that in this instance the national interest outweighs Spurr's right to privacy when he is using the University emailing system. 

The educational standards of our children are being debated here and it does bring into question the selection processes of this government when choosing their 'expert' advisors to government policy. Seems it is a prerequisite of this government to be a 'older white male' to contribute and being an elitist, racist, sexist, bigot does not preclude a candidate?I totally agree Jerry, The offensive words were not meant for public view and as such should not be taken as offensive. In saying this I was quite prepared to give Spurr the benefit of the doubt as to his explanation of 'linguistic' tomfoolery until I actually read the published emails. I was not offended by the word as I have used some of them in the past myself but having read this man's opinions, personal or not, his explanation does not hold up and there is enough context to make a personal judgement as to the individual. 

My personal judgement of Spurr is that he is an elitist, a racist, a sexist and a bigot and as such in my 'humble'(sic) opinion he is not fit to teach or give advice on the national curriculum. Given his attitudes towards the 'first peoples', Muslims, and women, any contribution he makes can and no doubt will be used to undermine the entire process, thus, his contribution should be removed. Its not the words its the context that I judge him by.

Humble, by the way, was a linguistic joke.Spot on Yank, we only have to look at the overreaction to the shooting of a soldier in Canada this morning that has resulted in Bronwyn Bishop announcing the tightening of security in our parliament (again). Just how much more can they tighten security. If we are to jump at shadows whenever something happens thousands of miles away in another country then I would suggest Isis, Al Quada and their ilk have won. Fear breeds fear and stupidity breeds stupidity.

My fear is the new paradigm of an 'Australian Police State' foisted upon us by a xenophobia fear mongering government. How sad that freedoms fought for over many decades can be so easily destroyed by a few teenagers and nutters on the other side of the planet. Seems our strong democracy is not so strong after all.Ben, have you ever heard the saying that "When you find yourself in a hole, stop digging". Your point has been heard and rejected because your assumption was wrong. Kapeesh.Yank I would suggest you research the relationship between Rupert Murdoch and Whitlam. Whitlam won the 72 election with the backing of Murdoch and his newspapers. They had a falling out because Rupert did not get his own way as to how to run government and then went about destroying Whitlam, not for the good of Australia but because he is a petulant megalomaniac. The parallels between the downfall of Whitlam and the downfall of the Gillard governments are unsurprisingly similar. The real demon in the Australian political sphere is Rupert Murdoch and the sooner he does us all a favour and either dies or goes to jail the better for democracy in Australia, Britain and the US.As a Labor supporter since the days of Whitlam I can only hope Bill Shorten and the ALP Caucus reads this and takes note. The Greens are closer to what Gough represented than the present Labor Party. Todays Labor is closer to what Frazer represented and the LNP should rename themselves the Tea Party with a KKK insignia. Oh how times have changed.I respectfully disagree barsnax. The Government has embarked on a 'look over there' agenda because the last thing they want to talk about is the economy. Hence the preoccupation with MH370, MH17, Home grown terrorists, the Burka ban, War in Iraq, Shirtfronts and Girlie man comments amongst other distractions. They have no idea on economic matters as shown by their budget of lies. They are hoping for a miracle or a stock market crash so as to shift the blame because 'look over there' he/she did it.

Once again today Abbott has been caught out plucking numbers out of thin air. The Minister for Defence has admitted to not doing any costing's for the War in Iraq and could not explain how Abbott came about the $500 million per year number he has been spruiking. When questioned in Senate estimates today Johnson had no idea as to the actual cost, just a blank cheque decision. An economically incompetent government spruiking nothing but BS. That's our Tones for ya. What an embarrassment he actually is.That's the problem Luke, its this narrow short term perspective that is the problem with this government. The true costs of using fossil fuels are pushed down the track onto our children who must at some stage clean up the mess and deal with the adverse effects left them by us. The pollution builds up, it does not go away. At the moment we are creating more CO2 than the earth can absorb. At some stage the cost outweighs the benefits. Studies show to do nothing and to continue on the same path is both environmentally and economically unsustainable. In other words the long term costs outweigh the short term gains. Its economic madness.yet Whitlam is remembered as a bold progressive political leader whose many reforms and policies have stood the test of time and are considered to be the backbone of our wonderful modern Australian society. Interestingly the same cannot be said for any conservative in our history. Frazer, little Johnny and Tones can only dream of such a legacy, Haha. Even Menzies pales in comparison.Fair call Forrest, we can argue the pro and cons of his governments policies another day. Suffice to say we have lost a particularly good man today.The contrast between Whitlam and Abbott could be no more stark. Whitlam was brilliant and ahead of his time whilst Abbott is a dolt and blunders around in the past.

Oh for a Whitlam-esk leader now.You could have no better example of the differences between the ALP and the LNP than comparing Whitlam to Frazer.

Whitlam will always be remembered for his progressive policies for a better Australia whilst Frazer will be remembered for well nothing except maybe being "Kerr's cur".

Hawke/Keating are remembered for their progressive policies such as floating the Aussie dollar and the Accord whilst Howard will be remembered for his lies about Children overboard and our involvement in the disastrous War in Iraq.

Julia Gillard will be remembered as the first female PM as well for her progressive policies like the NDIS and Gonski whilst Abbott will be remembered as a the most prolific liar and divisive PM in our history.

Oh, I forgot, Rudd will be remembered for the Apology to the stolen Generations and his undermining of Gillard, but most of all I suspect Rudd will be missed by Rudd more than anyone else.

There is a pattern of progressive building reforms by the ALP and destructive power plays by the LNP (and Rudd). Progress as a country requires progressive policies not oppressive power plays. We should all keep that in mind on the next election day.Yes Ben, just like a large portion of your law degree. Your point.So true Lee, and we are a nastier and more divided country because of the Abbott government. Interesting when we look at our history, we see that the ALP keeps building bridges whilst the LNP keeps pulling them down.In the early 60's people like yourself whom had no clue as to why people wore it made the assumption that the miniskirt was a form of protest that posed a threat to international peace. Their assumption were wrong and so are yours. You try to make the connection that to dress a certain way means that someone does not want to belong to our society. How bizarre and how totally wrong you actually are.Zing: Poor attempt at rewriting history. The Security people have always had the power to ask people to remove face coverings for identification purposes. No change at all to what previously existed. Poor excuse from a bigoted government. The truth is that Bronwyn has form here. In 2006 in cohorts with Sophie Mirabella, she tried to have the Islamic head scarf outlawed in public schools because she saw it as an attack on our (read her) so called western values, whatever they actually are.

We were also told that Abbott had contacted Bronwyn about this giving the inference that he had intervened to save the day. Today when asked Bronny denied that this discussion with Abbott has ever taken place. Who is lying?. Bronny or Tones.? We were also told that this was temporarily put in place after advice from the security people at parliament, yet today we find out that no such advice existed from any security service. Once again we were lied too. 

This lot quite simply cannot be believed on the most trivial of things. It seems they have an uncontrollable compulsion to lie. Who would have thunk it? Its not like they have form, is it?Graham, you have completely, and might I say deliberately, missed the point. Whilst the comment was delivered as an intended insult, its the sexist element not the supposed insulting that is offensive. Another in a long line of sexist offenses by the blue tie brigade and to be quite honest a pathetic attempt at humour that exposes the prevalent 1950's bigotry of this government. So much for the adults in charge.Well spotted Monty. Its become apparent that this government would rather look silly than expose their incompetence. Its all about the Budget people. Don't forget the lies and the lies upon the lies.Vlad, usually I research before I post and did so again prior to my above post. 

1.Professor Joshi was born in Burma and spent her first years of schooling there.
2.Professor Joshi is a Mathematician and Scientist and headed up the Sydney Uni's Centre of Mathematical Biology, which amongst other things studies the spread of biological diseases through out communities using and developing mathematical modelling for the purpose. I think that qualifies her as an expert.
3.I re watched the Q&amp;A program from last night and I have read the transcript. As such I stand by my original post 100%. I suggest you actually research before posting.Noah, you are so correct in your summation. I have a question for those that support sending troops to Iraq but oppose sending medical staff to West Africa. 

What if Ebola reaches Iraq?  Do we then pull out our troops?What a load of tosh Zing. One million Australians visit and then return to and from Indonesia per year, and you concentrate on a few asylum seekers with your fear mongering hypothesis that they will carry Ebola to Australia. Do you not realise Asylum Seekers arriving by boat are subject to detention and health checks way in excess of any health checks for returning Australian tourists or International visitors. Your shrill comments demonising Asylum Seekers at all and any cost without logical reason or honesty are simply irrelevant. Please go away.And just what would you do Todd. All hail the bravery of the great and noble keyboard warrior. What a joke.Not only does Todd pretend to speak for all those on the right he makes the false assumption that anyone that feels Abbott's comments were not worthy of the high office of PM and basically an embarrassment to our country must according to Todd be a Communist Putin supporter. Wrong on all counts Todd but I suppose that's what it takes to be on "Abbott's Team Australia". You must be one eyed, gullible and either a racist, bigot, liar, thug or any combination of the aforementioned.What a load of garbage dean. Your list is pertinent to people like myself that are guilty of complaint whilst they could do all those things on your list before claiming poverty.

The problem is the poor do all those things on your list and still cannot afford to pay their power bills or get the dental care for their children that is needed etc.....

The reality is far from what you describe and is the exact problem the authors here are talking of. I have said it before and will repeat it again. I work on a site where the cleaners are paid peanuts yet they are the hardest workers on site. They never stop and are ridden by little Hitlers every moment of the day usually overloaded with work in terrible conditions. You would not last two minutes so until you have walk a mile in the shoes of the poor then wind your neck in.We all should remember the exorbitant waiting times for so called elective surgery as well as huge waiting times at emergency departments last time we had an LNP government. The ALP had made excellent gains in these area's yet we are heading down the same road again. Already we have hospitals again treating patients in the hallways and Ambulances wait times at hospitals increasing after just one year. Goes to show that this government learnt nothing from 6 years in opposition. Peoples health put at risk because of an ideologically driven government hell bent on taking us down the American path of no money no treatment just so American health providers can get dip their grubby hands even into our health budget. These idiots in charge are certainly not for the people.What a load of crap Coogara, under your system unless a refugee is Indonesian, Papua New Gunean or a New Zealander then we have no 'real' refugee's coming to Australia at all. Do the UK, Germany etc..border the African Nations or the Middle East? I suggest you research the International Refugee Conventions before you make such ridiculous claims.Coochey and Coogara, you are both completely wrong. That's the trouble with only reading one paragraph and not the whole document. Without a long drawn out explanation, the vast majority of Asylum Seekers arriving by boat to Australia have travelled through other countries to get here and have been found, by our courts, to be genuine refugee's. Your argument does not hold on that fact alone. A precedent has already been accepted by all jurisdictions and for good reasons.

For an explanation of why I refer you to the Refugee Council of Australia web site and in particular the section titled 

"Myths about refugees and asylum seekers." 

Whilst I do recommend the reading the whole section about the many myths and untruths you and others continue to put forward, to save you a bit of time look for the sub section titled:
 
"People who seek protection in Australia are ?country shopping?. They could have stopped in other safe countries along the way.?

Your assumptions are a myth, please in future research thoroughly prior to posting, lest you embarrass yourselves again.Coogara: I was replying to the myths Coochey, yourself and others continually make claiming that asylum seekers are not genuine because they have come through other 'safe' countries. As far as the argument that we cannot take 55 million refugee's, well that's obvious and not what I claimed. Please do not verbal me. I, like every one else, want to see proper humane solutions to this problem, not the sweep it under the carpet or turn a blind eye approach of recent Australian governments. The Authors here have put forward their considered opinions as a template for a solution and the continued misinformation and myths put forward by some do not add to the debate but rather debase it. Surely, as a society, the truth and honest debate is an essential ingredient to any solution to any problem. Please read the Refugee Council articles I have pointed too because it is a very good explanation of the realities of the problems and our obligations under the UNHCR conventions.Sorry APM, you are deluded. The electorate will punish any government that is seen to have lied to them and this government has nailed all the records for lies told, lies told about the lies, and longevity of lies. One term Tony will be a footnote in the history books as an example of what not to do when in government. The War, oh sorry Mission, will not save him from the 'budget of lies'.Yank: I am not sure cutting the number of politicians is a good thing. I think we need more representation rather than less and I think this can be achieved by getting the present lot to actually do their job and represent their electorates is preference over their party. I also believe our politicians have surrounded themselves with lobbyists and spin doctors yet I believe they should be surrounding themselves with actual experts and researchers in their particular department. At last count I think the LNP had over 100 spin doctors on the books. 35 in the PM's office alone.

We should also remember that it was Julia Gillard and Chris Bowen, during Gillards last couple of months, that stated that successive governments, including hers, had cut the Public Service to the bone, and that further cuts would cause huge service delivery problems. We were warned people its just that many were not listening including our present LNP government.Spot on Darren, it is very hypocritical of the LNP and their supporters to say the problems are due to the last governments cuts when in fact they have more recently made deep cuts themselves. It also should be considered that Labor warned prior to the election that the Public Service had been cut to the bone by successive governments including their own and that there was very little 'fat' left to cut if any. In fact they were not the only ones issuing this warning. Public service chiefs and Unions also warned the politicians of looming problems if more cuts were to be made. Warnings ignored by Hockey and Abbott. Seems a pattern doesn't it. Ignore the warnings and blame Labor for everything. How long do we have to put up with these lying inept fools.APofW, Thanks for the 'wry' humour, you have nailed it. Beautifully written.No Rinaldo its not appeasement of any sort.

Appeasement :  The policy of granting concessions to potential enemies to maintain peace.

What the data does point to is that many Australian's do not see Australian Muslims as potential enemies whilst also they believe that fighting extremist like ISIS in far off lands is somewhat foolish. 

See what I did there people, I interpreted data to suit my own perspective. I am sure I won't be the only one to do this here. Be aware of those that pretend to speak for all.There is a great show on SBS at the moment called 'living with the enemy' that highlights your point exactly Sir Trent. Those that are most fearful of Muslims espouse to be the fonts of all wisdom when it comes to the Islamic culture yet they have never actually had any to do with it. How stupid is that?LB: It beggars the question as to Australia's support and supply of weapons to the Peshmerga and Kurds who are proscribed as a terrorist group on the Australian Governments web site. 

It seems a 'terrorist' organisation is a very arbitrary call indeed.Good point Sydney Bob, its the narrow terms of reference that shows up this RC as a witch hunt. I also wonder how much political pressure was brought to bear on the commission to request an extension that conveniently coincides with an election. The point Barry made that the Abbott government took only a couple of days to grant this extension whilst the extension application from RC into Child Abuse took weeks also lends credence to the witch hunt accusation. We can see from their actions where this Governments priorities lie, and its definitely not with arguably the more important Child Abuse RC.I simply wish people would stop trying to force their own prejudice and views on the rest of us. Your views are yours John and definitely not mine and I am willing to compare my version of what it is to be an Australian to yours any day. In my Australia, people can wear what ever they bloody well like. My fathers family emigrated here in 1850 on a ship called America from Nth Hampton England. I have, at the very least, 12.5% Aboriginal blood and the rest is a very mixed bag indeed. I do not, and never have believed that I am any more or less Australian than any other citizen. Understand mate, you do not speak for Australians you speak for yourself. 'OUR culture', what a load of crap.Peter, what a load of rubbish. Blind people cannot see your face, should they be offended. Are you offended by people talking to you wearing sunglasses and sporting a beard. Are you offended by people talking to you on the phone. What about those that paint their face at the footy and the cricket. Its a ridiculous argument that exposes your own xenophobia which is your problem not the problem of others. 

Xenophobia is the unreasoned fear of that which is perceived to be foreign or strange. The emphasis on 'unreasonable'.

Your remark about road rage is apt to you because of your way at looking at life. Unreasonable overreactions to perceived slights that justify your own anger and fears. Intolerance and unreasonable reactions followed by excuses. Reminds me of the school yard bully mentality of some that have never really grown up.Sandra,

"Why not meet the new country half way by taking off the full face armour and just wear the nice scarves showing the face ?"

The question is where is the line drawn. Is it drawn by those that seek to ban these items of clothing or is it drawn by those who have no problems with it? I see from your post that you sit somewhere in the middle and I appreciate your willingness to accept a compromise but your solution supposes Australia has a problem with these garments when in fact the law (Australia) says people are quite within their rights to make the choice for themselves. It is the loud mouth minority that is calling for a ban that has nothing to do with security and everything to do with their own insecurities.

I hate what the Burka historically stands for elsewhere but in Australia it is a choice, and those wearing it are quite aware that they have a choice, a choice that should be respected just like the choice to wear a mini skirt or a bikini.

I can only advise you to actually say hello to someone in a Burka and engage them in conversation. Respectfully ask them why they wear it. Only then will you fully appreciate their choice.Ben the Lawyer, Ben Saul submitted an article to the Drum on this subject entitled "Broad passport powers raise concerns"
Posted on Mon 23 Jun this year. It is an interesting read and may answer some of your questions, and more than likely will raising a few as well. Cheers.
I don't know dtm. I would say Labors NDIS, Gonski, NBN, the mining tax and an ETS are all innovative and progressive policies. Add in Medicare, Superannuation, HECS, and a minimum wage and we see all these policies were introduced by Labor and opposed by the LNP. Pity this regressive government has or is derailing them all..

Please don't forget that if not for Labor these things would not be policy or on the agenda at all. They were all Labors idea's. What has the LNP to offer? Other than the GST (originally Keatings idea) and the Gun By Back (credit to Howard), what have they actually done?.Ben, 18C has nothing to do with restricting your civil liberties. All it does is it protects peoples civil liberty not to be racially vilified or discriminated against during public debate and opinion. Being a lawyer I would have thought you would know this. Those supporting 18C are actually supporting civil liberties and free speech not hate speech.The problem with Abbotts comments were that he knew the stupid media and some from his own party would blow it up to be a huge issue thus he was using it as a diversion from the discussion that had temporarily moved back to the budget. He played the xenophobic card to the bigots. The other part is this debate was deliberately framed as a security issue when in fact it is an issue of bigotry by a few LNP nutters. Namely Bronwyn Bishop, Cory Bernardi and Christensen. An absolutely disgraceful ploy when you think about it.Julie Bishop may have performed 'well' in the eyes of the 'right' but really what has she done. Kept silent on Israeli/Palestinian War in Gaza. Ignored Ebola. Endorsed the re emergence of the Cold War rhetoric about Russia and basically interfered to the point of stifling any co operation to get to the bottom of the MH17 disaster. Not much of an accomplishment.No Brad, whenever the media criticized Gillard in a sexist manner they were branded sexist. You are right about it being baseless slander though. As far as Bishop is concerned she was quite willing to endorse the sexist attacks on Gillard. She and other LNP women could have called out some of their male cheer squad for their attacks but did not and thus consigned themselves to the same rancour and humiliation. The LNP women certainly lacked any principle. By the way the Author is anything but a lefty and Paula I did not see any articles of yours about the sexism Gillard had to put up with, at the time, by your good self. Now its an issue. Interesting.dmans5: you have made that claim about criminals voting Labor before. Can you back that up or is it just another LNP made up statistic.ginny: Some basic research would be appropriate before jumping to conclusions. Over production flooding the market is being purposefully done to force the smaller less efficient operators out of the market. The big 3 Iron ore producers are predatory pricing similar to Coles and Woolies in the milk industry to garner future market share. Its the industry that is cannibalising itself. Coal is very similar with too many producers and predatory policies. Please inform yourself prior to going into an automatic rant against what was a good tax and good policy.No Whitey: Abbotts comments, that he knew would be a focal point, were either stupid or mischievous. They also should be viewed in the context of long held views by many Conservatives that any Muslim Scarf or Head covering is an affront to our western cultures. Anyone that does not believe me on that should do some research into the views expressed by Bronwyn Bishop and others in 2005/2006. This has nothing to do with security and all to do with cultural bigotry. Please, I invite you to do the research and judge for yourself.Tottie: I am an older gentleman, married for 35 years and find it a little confronting talking to any female stranger, no matter what she wears. Until recently I had never talked to a Muslim woman wearing her attire because I have not known how to approach them. Stupid when you think about it. A couple of days ago I said hello to a young lady with a couple of kids at the local Coles whilst waiting for my wife. I was shocked that she said hello in an Aussie accent and was quite willing to talk my ear off telling me about her kids. My point is that my problem was MY problem not hers.

I see Doves comment above and I fully agree. Say hello and ask questions. Muslim women are just women like you, like my wife , like my daughter. They have feelings and fears. Some will be great and some will be not so great just like anyone else. The problem you have is yours not theirs. I say that with respect. No insult intended. Please take the time to say hello, because like me I am sure you will be pleasantly surprised.

Hope you have a good experience. I did.The British Conservatives have been very critical of our Governments lack of strategy to deal with Global Warming. The Washington Post described Abbott as Australia's George W Bush. Just making things up to suit your BS realist is anything but real.Whogoesthere: What law? Rules maybe. Please correct me if I am wrong but I did not think any such law exists.This is a pure fantasy beat up by xenophobes without any logical basis. Anyone entering parliament passes through 2 levels of security screening. Therefore this really is not a security risk. As far as concealing weapons, first you still have to pass security, but lets say you do, secondly why would you hide a bomb, a machete or a gun behind a veil in your face when you have perfectly good pockets, robes, trousers, jackets and brief cases for the purpose. Its illogical and ridiculous to call this a security enhancement.Like Abbott said he finds the Burka confronting. He has unfounded and irrational fears as do others. At least he is savvy enough to recognise his fears for what they are. Others cannot get past their fears. That's xenophobic. The fantasy is to say the Burka, or any other face covering threatens security in parliament house. Please provide an actual example or hypothetical of how security is threatened. Think about it. The parliament is actually saying that a women with a burka represents a physical threat to the adults in the room so lets make them sit with the school kids. Gotta love the logic in that.C'mon Joe, give us something real. The eyes are the windows to the souls. You would have me believe that there are a plethora of security guards following people around studying the eyes of those visiting or those sitting in the gallery. Sunglasses or tinted lens's are not banned?? Face is uncovered, sunglasses are removed for identification at security points. What more do you want?

And of course your logic dictates that it is only possible to conceal a plastic gun in your pocket if you have your face covered. Oh, you and your plastic gun can go over there and sit next to the kiddies because the adults are bit scared.  

Can you people not see the ridiculous nature of your arguments. C'mon people, one genuine dinky di threat to security.
All well and good Banana Bender but as you are well aware the Newman Government has used its numbers in an unprecedented way to first change the rules on Members declarations to Parliament then to change and stifle the CMC so now its focus is whatever the Newman Government instructs it to focus on, namely Bikies and Unions and then made a very controversial Judiciary appointment that has been loudly condemned by the vast majority of very respected members of the bench. Concerns as to separation of powers issues are not only apt but require investigation.

The use of a vested interest mining engineer that is employed by a mining company to head the environmental approvals for that same company is somewhat dubious as well especially as it involves our greatest national treasure, the Great Barrier Reef.

The Newman government is as crooked as a dogs hind leg and has used its numbers to prevent any true oversight of government. You know it is so, as does, every one else in QLD.

When Newman said Qld is open for business he really meant was "Qld is open for corruption".

I believe a RC is required but Abbott has not the integrity for such an obvious requirement. Hopefully a future Labor government will have a RC because we have not seen this level of deception since Joh.SimonP38, Your list is just a say nothing list of excuses for bad behaviour.

Accusations as to the Newman governments interference in our judiciary have come from all quarters, its not a partisan divide.

Accusations as to the Newman governments nobbling of the CMC once again have come from all quarters, its not a partisan divide.

The use of a mining engineer, on loan from a mining company, to make environmental recommendations that benefit that mining company is okay then. Red flag anyone?

Issues of the separation of powers and independence of our judiciary as well as transparency and oversight dog this government because of this governments actions, nothing to do with the Labor Party. Your defence of this is to engage in the childish taunt of 'he started it' and 'they did it first'. These are simply straw arguments with no validity what so even.

As far as the donations crap is concerned I think you will find many are complaining about the lack of transparency in both the federal and state spheres. The fact that these changes were the first order of business and thus the highest priority of the Newman government to protect the identity of their backers says it all doesn't it.  
Quite right Jerry Attrick (love the nom de plume). 
There is a very old saying that goes back centuries that states:-

"Fool me once shame on you, fool me twice shame on me".

The electorate were fooled once by the lies of this government, and as such I blame the liars. If, heaven forbid, the electorate are fooled twice then it is only right to blame the electorate.

We may be dumb but we are not fools. Abbott is gone.gd, I am one of your 'lefties.' and an electrician. Now people use electricity. I have no problem for myself to use and pay for all the power I wish to spoil myself with, paid for from my hard earned dollars and I expect my children to do the same. I will do my best to do as little damage to nature as I can without being silly about it. I am not a fanatic but I want to do my bit for not polluting the planet and heating it up. The reason for my attitude is that it is gonna cost my children more because eventually someone has gotta clean up the pollution. Now people like you are just full of crap because you know that eventually the environment will be saturated with too much of our human created crap to the point where it is going to have to be cleaned up. You know this. Beijing for example. The pollution in Beijing abates on a good day because the wind blows and in fact it mixes with the environment the rest of us use and more importantly what our children will use in the future. It will build up. Don't need science to tell me that.  

As a proud 'rightie' you bang on about how people should take responsibility and stop bludging off of you. People should pay there way and not ask others to pay for their excesses. Your position gb is pure hypocrisy not mine. I want to pay my share of the clean up. I want that clean up to be cost effective and efficient and for everyone to do or pay their share. You want the free ride. You don't want to either clean up after yourself or better still reduce your pollution in the first instance. You just want to continue to make the mess and pass it down the road to your kids. When you leave here please at the very least be honest and fess up to your kids and your grand kids of what you do and why you do it. You are not stupid gd so I can only conclude you do this purposefully. Please go away, you are dismissed.The Climate deniers, They deny its happening, when proven wrong, they deny being responsible, when proven wrong, they deny the science back to first step.

The hypocrisy with the denier is his usual other mantra of everyone taking responsibility and paying their way. The denier wants to get a free ticket to pollute and kick the cost down the road to the kids. The denier know there is a cost. The denier hates to be called the denier because he/she knows in their logical thinking brain that they are denying through ideology and fiction rather than science and fact. Their emotional brain represented by their egotistical selfishness is denying the logical calculated decision making brain. Says a lot really.Peter and Jackie, you know all you will elicit is the usual  ridiculous and repetition misinformation from the vested interest non science brigade that troll the net to preach their BS. Same trolls every climate article, same BS, you would think someone is paying them to troll. Nah couldn't happen could it?
You hit the nail on the head there, astro.

We seem to be able to magically find extraordinary amounts of money to wage wars to defend us from one after another real or imagined threat (take your pick) yet we cannot find resources for programs we know saves lives of little girls and boys like Chloe. 

We really have become a pathetic excuse of a country. Think about it people, next time a family is slaughtered or a child is maltreated or a woman is bashed, ask yourself, could we do with one less war plane, one less sub, one less war and spend that money on our societal failures. Failures that cost many more Australian lives than any manufactured threat of terror.


 

What a load of drivel Brian. You can try to justify and excuse this governments crap all you like mate, but when you really dig down to the cause of the problem, it is this governments want, to play the politics of fear so they can beat their chests on the political podium with their look at me, I have saved us all from those evil hoards of imaginary enemies. Its all about votes and very little to do with security. AGive us a break Rob, I despise what has happened to the Labor Party in this country, but, they are not in government. People like yourself seem to excuse the LNP for their callousness, their lack of honesty and integrity and their divisive xenophobic nature because why, because they are the LNP and its expected of them. Then you denigrate the Labor Party for not holding the LNP to account or worse still for Labors failures which pale in comparison to the LNP's.

They are not peas in the same pod at all. The LNP are nasty bigoted, xenophobes narcissists bordering on racists. The Labor Party are opportunistic and rudderless but like I said the LNP are in government, not that they will take any responsibility for their actions. The crappy mantra of its all Labors fault, is wearing a bit thin don't you think. Its well over due that they should have to answer for their actions.anote: " There comes a point that a part of the world is so violently antagonist to Australia ..."

Please anote name a place that is 'violently antagonistic to us', and if you can find one then ask yourself why do they feel that way. Could it be that we are supplying their enemies with weapons. Could it be we are getting ready to bomb them.

I make no excuse for ISIS, (they are murderous bastards) but they did not include us in this war we included ourselves.I am simply pointing out the truth. I despise what ISIS stand for but we did declared war on them. Whether or not we should have is a different debate but no one was threatening Australia or Australians until we decided to stick our noses in. We could, as some suggested, have restricted our actions to a purely humanitarian role. Would that have elicited the same response from ISIS, we can only guess. But sabre rattling. hmmm. 

Like I said the rights and wrongs can be debated but to deny our own part in inviting this crap on ourselves is delusional. Many, including myself, begged for a parliamentary debate on the subject. A debate that Abbott and Shorten denied. A debate that if had, would have been a sober reminder to the Australian people that there are consequences for our actions. Consequences Abbott and Shorten never really explained to the people.

The consequences are real and are as we see them now. A heightened terrorist threat level, reduced freedoms, and a more paranoid, xenophobic, bigoted, racist and divided society. If people do not like these consequences then bad luck because this is how the executive powers were wielded by Abbott and Shorten. Like I said I do not and never will make excuses for murderous regimes and groups like ISIS. Nor do I make excuses for our governments lack of due diligence either.anote: 1. there is a huge difference from excusing ones behaviour and identifying the reason behind ones behaviour. They made threats to us in response of our threats to them.

2. "Leaving IS to do their deeds without consideration of the consequences is not an acceptable response."

My point exactly, we did not have the debate so all consequences were not considered. All views and reasoning's were not listened to. A unilateral decision was made by one person and backed up by another without either considering all the consequences or explaining them to the people. Arrogant government. We have had plenty of time for the debate, We have had plenty of time for consensus. We have had plenty of time for a mandate and a careful and considered approach yet we had a knee jerk sabre rattling chest beating response.

Like I say the decision to go or not is different to how the decision came about. I disagree with the decision to go ( not for the reasons you intimate) and I disagree with how it came about. Are you comfortable with a  unilateral decision by a dim wit like Abbott when time for inclusive considered debate is available. A true leader consults and canvasses many viewpoints, not just yes men and vested interests. Abbott fails the test of leadership every time.


