Russia will never agree to a resolution which results in scrutiny of their own crimes.

Putin doesn't care if Russia is an international pariah. His power comes from Russian nationalism, so anything which furthers the divide between "us and them" ensures that his people stay in lockstep. But a formal investigation into his actions in Ukraine would only cause him trouble. 

In the end, the guilty parties will only be brought to justice in two ways: combat or surrender. The international community should clearly throw it's support behind Ukraine's military action. If Russia wants to act in a peacekeeping capacity, it can do this by closing the borders and arresting any separatists who attempt to flee.The greatest risk that the international teams have to worry about is being detained by separatists and used as bargaining chips.

The separatists have form, after all."under the Refugee Protocals , these people would be genuine refugees fearing persecution by the Ukraine govt."

Attempting to break away from your nation is generally considered treason. Taking up arms to do so is certainly treason.

The separatists won't be refugees fleeing persecution. They will be criminals fleeing prosecution. Unless they can prove they will be tortured, nations will be obliged to return them to Ukraine so justice can be done."Israel uses brutal force on a poorly armed people."

Israel is entitled to use whatever force is required to end the threat of Hamas rockets.  

If a person is hurling rocks at your head, you can use whatever force is reasonable to stop them. The fact you are better armed doesn't mean they can throw rocks at you with impunity - war doesn't work that way.

"Israel stole and continue to steal Palestinian land and you expect them to lie down and take it."

Palestine can only resist occupation by legal means. If they can't fight legally, they have no legal right to fight at all.Russia has nothing to gain from the destruction of the jet? You ignore the following points:

1. Russia doesn't care about international opinion. Neither does it's population.

2. As soon as the plane went down, Russia tried to explain it as an anti-Russian conspiracy. Their supporters believe this without question. Is that not a benefit?

3. The rebels subsequently attempted to use the downing of the plane as the basis for a new ceasefire. If they succeeded, this would be a clear benefit.

4. The most likely explanation is that the rebels made a mistake.There is a difference.

Yugoslavia split as a result of sectarian violence. The split of Ukraine has led to sectarian violence. 

Yugoslavia split because individual groups preferred independence. Ukraine was split because Russia annexed Crimea and also wishes to annex Eastern Ukraine.

The only think that Ukraine and Yugoslavia has in common is that both times, Russia has opposed the West."Russia however recently released sat-images of Ukrainian BUKs in rebel controlled areas."

So the photographs are of rebel controlled areas now? They were claiming it was a photo of Ukrainian territory yesterday. But since evidence shows the missile came from a rebel area, I suppose Moscow had to change their tune.

Aside from which:

-The Ukrainians have lost several planes to anti-air missiles.
-The rebels have no air force.
-The Ukrainians have no reason to use anti-air weapons.

So there is no reason why Ukraine would send BUK launchers into the middle of enemy territory. Russia's excuses are becoming ridiculous."If the Ukrainian government was watching these BUK systems being moved across to their side of the boarder, why not doing something about it?"

Because attacking the convoy would be an attack on Russian soldiers, giving Russia the perfect excuse to march their armies across the border.

This isn't just a fight between Ukraine and separatists. As Ukraine fights the separatists, it also has to worry about Russia stepping into the fight to annex more territory.Yep, Frangipani.

And thus the pattern is established. America blames according to guilt. Russia blames according to convenience."Apparently any government not fancied by the US and determined not to be invaded or overthrown by them is to be regarded as 'fascist'."

You joke, Kenji. Check out the Russian media and forums. Anyone who opposes Russian views is considered a fascist. They consider Ukraine fascist. They consider the West fascist.  

It's an old holdover from Soviet days, where the term 'fascist' meant 'anything contrary to Russian interests'. But even as Russia lurches right towards nationalism, racism and bigotry, they continue to use 'fascist' as a label for their enemies. It's quite surreal. And when you accuse the West of using the term loosely, it's hilarious."Perhaps the simplest solution might be to invite Russia into NATO rather than keeping NATO as primarily an anti-Russian security organization."

Given that Russia poses the greatest military threat to Europe right now, that would seem unwise."Have you considered that Russia may feel as threatened by NATO as NATO feels threatened by Russia"

Not in the slightest.

NATO is worried about Russian invasion. Russia's only worry is that if their neighbours join NATO, Russia can't annex their territory without starting a world war.You don't seem to be getting the narrative, Alpo.

Ukraine &gt; Russian militants 
Iraq &gt; ISIS militants
Pakistan &gt; Taliban militants
Israel &gt; Palestinian militants

Nobody expects Israel to sit back and have their cities hit by unguided rockets. Nobody expects Hamas to be rewarded for firing unguided rockets at Israeli cities. The use of military action against Hamas is the only reasonable option available to Israel. While Palestinian casualties are regrettable, they are also inevitable. 

Besides. The world sat by while tens of thousands of civilians died in Syria as war waged for two years. What makes you think they'll take action against Israel for responding to missile attacks, when barely a month has passed?"if Putin sends in the tanks, we're looking at WWIII."

Unlikely. Ukraine isn't worth the risk of nuclear Armageddon. Neither is the whole of Europe, for the matter, if Putin decides to go further.

That was the key problem with the MAD doctrine. People weren't afraid of nuclear war. They were afraid that the threat of nuclear war will give Russia the advantage in any conventional conflict.It will be difficult to hold the pro-Russian militants to account. They wear balaclavas for a reason and it isn't fashion sense.

The laws of war are well-intentioned. But in a practical sense, these laws only succeed in hindering those who comply with them, while providing military advantage to those willing to breach them.

The pro-Russian militants are nice and prominent now. But once defeated, they will become invisible. A militant who isn't killed will throw away their balaclava and gun, to become "innocent Russian civilian who was vacationing in Ukraine". They will never be held to account for their actions. 

The laws will not stop militants who launch unguided rockets at Tel Aviv suburbs and who hide their launchers near civilian buildings. These militants will never be tried in the Hague. The laws will not stop Russian militants from shooting down planes, or stop China from using its veto to protect nations like North Korea and Iran.

In the end, the laws exist for one reason: to define the villain. Those who are hindered by the law can hold themselves as morally superior to those who break it. And thus, the West can justify their wars and their exceptionalism when taking action against their enemies.When Hamas launches unguided missiles at an entire city, it counts as indiscriminate bombardment of civilian areas. Each rocket is a clear atrocity under law and has no possible legal excuse under Geneva Conventions.

When the Israelis launch a fighter strike at a missile launcher, the legality depends on a variety of factors. It depends on what kind of target was hit, how many civilians died, what kind of weapon was used and whether the strike was proportionate.

If Israel created rockets like Hamas and randomly launched them at Gaza like Hamas does, the Palestinian casualties would be beyond number. This is why the tactics of Hamas are outlawed. If Hamas cannot resist legally, it has no right to resist period.Pedro.

The rebels do not have helicopters, fighters or bombers. So why would the Ukrainian army waste their time and effort to cover the area with anti-air weaponry?

The rebels have been using anti-air missiles. They've already shot down several planes and helicopters, which they boast about and has been confirmed by Ukraine. Yesterday, the rebels boasted about shooting a large plane down in the same area as the crash site. Now they're a bit more humble, as they view the results.

The simple explanation - the rebels were badly trained and shot down the wrong plane. It will be a very costly mistake for them and the Russians who support them. Now the Ukrainians can crush the rebels while the world cheers. Russia will have another crime to add to their legacy.It doesn't matter, Jungle boy. The evidence might be hidden. But American satellites and Europe officials have already had a chance to ascertain what happened. 

Russia and their rebels will deny everything to the public. But in the chambers and corridors of power, the truth will be well known by all sides.Not really.

For every left-winger who hates Putin for repression, there are ten left-wingers who love him for "fighting fascism" and "resisting the imperialist western aggressors".Say what you like, Dave.

There are plenty of people around the world who oppose the West and support Russia's actions. Most of them would be highly offended if you called them "right wing". 

Keep posting on this forum, you'll no doubt be honoured by their attention. Not every left-winger is a nice fuzzy progressive like the kind you might associate with.The nonsense will not stop soon, Yank.

Russia has caused nothing but repression, destruction and misery for the last century. And the Russian people have supported this every step of the way - they see it as something to be proud of.

American exceptionalism is tempered by democracy and has weakened over time. Russian exceptionalism is encouraged by Russian nationalism and is growing stronger by the year.No nation has clean hands. 

But the Russian hands are exceptionally bloody. Only a few decades ago, their government controlled half of Europe. Half their effort was spent trying to bring repression to the rest of the world, the other half was spent shooting people who tried to escape it. 

Their only redeeming action was to assist the Allies to defeat Nazi Germany. And even then, it was simply because the Russians decided to project their brutality in a convenient direction. Fifty years of cold war soon eclipsed it. And while the Soviet empire of the Russians might have collapsed, they can't escape their legacy.

If you want to view Russian perspectives, check the comments of any Russian media site. For every Russian who claims they are not involved in Ukraine, there is another who admits it and boasts about it.I'm under no illusions, Truth.

The United States have caused their share of misery and destruction. In some cases, yes, they have caused repression. But they have also protected, built and liberated. 

The Russians have no such claim. Their legacy is a long line of self-interested actions at other people's expense with little to balance it out. Only twenty years ago, the word "Russian peacekeeper" was a word associated with fear and invasion. Now the meaning has returned.Kenji. Why do you continue to base your worldview on Russian propaganda?

Russia claimed there were no soldiers in Crimea. A week later, they admitted the opposite.

Russia claimed Russians were not assisting rebel forces or providing weapons. A week later, the opposite was proven.

Yesterday, rebels boasted about shooting down a plane. Today, they're saying "no, we didn't shoot down anything - the Ukrainians must have done it".

You might as well stop believing the Russian media, Kenji. It saves you time in the long run, when they inevitably get proven to be liars and start reporting something different.

Spare me, Kenji.

When Russia admitted to occupying Ukraine, their supporters rationalised it. When Russia annexed Ukraine, their supporters rationalised it. 

If the Russians admit to shooting down the plane, their supporters will rationalise that too. Their conspiracies and previous views will be dismissed in a breath, to make way for their new version of the truth.Dee. Bullies never want war. They want the other side to flinch, while they do as they please.

Russia already blames Ukraine for "forcing" Russian soldiers to invade and annex Crimea. If Russia shot down the plane, they'll blame Ukraine for "forcing" them to do that too.The Russians are in damage control. But only regarding their own people.

They need to lodge the seeds of conspiracy and ensure that Russian nationalism is stoked against the international backlash and sanctions which will soon hit them. Russia doesn't care if the world hates them - but they need to explain this hate to their population in a favourable light.

They'll have an easy job. After all, a Russian is the only person who can simultaneously believe:
- Russian soldiers did not occupy Crimea;
- Russian soldiers did occupy Crimea and Putin was right to send them;
- Crimea always belonged to Russia; and
- Russia is just protecting Crimea from fascists.

Compared to that, damage control for the civilian airline will be a piece of cake.Dee. You can ignore both Russian and Western media, but only the Russians and their militants will benefit from your apathy.

The Russians don't care if you listen to them. They only care that you don't listen to the West.The lost of a civilian airline is senseless.

The conflict itself, however, is not senseless. Ukrainian sovereignty is at stake. Both the Ukraine and Russia have much to lose."Russia would most likely not supply the sophisticated weapon system to fighters in Ukraine even if it were backing them militarily, because it would be nearly impossible to prevent its use or abuse from being traced directly back to Moscow."

Russia would supply the weapons because:

1. They don't care if it gets tracked to Moscow; and

2. If it does get caught, people like you will try to defend them from the accusation. Much like you're defending them right now."So if Russian military presence in Ukraine is so evident, why then don't they just send in divisions of their regular forces and do the job properly?"

If they did, I'm sure the Russian people and Kenji would cheer them. Or deny it was happening. Or both, at the same time.Sorry, Kenji.

Only a few months ago, there were "no Russian forces invading Crimea". 

The next day, Crimea was annexed by Russia. And Russian forces and equipment were all over the peninsula for "peacekeeping purposes". Same militants, same equipment. The only difference was that the militants were no longer wearing their balaclavas.

Today, there are "no Russian forces" in Luhansk and Donetsk. A pattern emerges.....Mark. The critical questions for this debate are:

1. How many boat people should Australia accept; 
2. Which ones should we accept; and
3. What should we do with the rest?

If you're not providing answers to these questions, then you aren't really contributing to a solution. You're just complaining for the sake of complaining.Mark. They are not questions. They are issues. 

Labor and the Coalition have attempted to answer these issues in different ways. That is why they have made progress in this debate, while groups like the Greens have not.

The issues for boat people are clear. How many to take? How should we choose? What should we do to the rest? 

If you can't provide a concrete answer, then your objections serve little purpose.Illegal immigrants in Mexico risk their lives on a daily basis to enter America. They gamble their lives, merely for the hope of getting a minimum wage job.

Those same immigrants will not try to smuggle themselves into Europe. Why? Because it costs too much and it's too easy for them to be deported afterwards.

Illegal immigrants are not deterred by the risk of death. They are deterred by the risk of wasting their money - this is the deterrence that Australia must harness.Yank.

The boat people arrive from transit countries such as Indonesia, Pakistan, India and Malaysia. The moment they entered those countries, they have escaped persecution. The moment they started country shopping, they ceased to be refugees as far as the convention is concerned. 

By the time they come to Australia to apply for asylum, they're no longer qualified to receive it. That is the reason we can assume boat people are not genuine and turn them back.  Plane arrivals succeed only because they came directly from a country where they were being persecuted. 

In the past, we only detained boat people and assessed them as genuine because successive governments lacked the political will to send them back to Indonesia. We were assessing people as genuine when they were not, because deporting them was too much trouble. Both Labor and the Coalition were guilty of that.

Now the mainstream parties have realised that the boat numbers are growing, and we no longer have the luxury of pretending that frauds are genuine. This leaves people like you confused, since you can't understand why "genuine" boat people are suddenly being turned away.If these people had arrived by plane, they would be swiftly deported.

The detention of boat people is disgusting and discriminatory. They should be promptly deported with an genuine apology for the delay.We can do whatever we please when it comes to airplane arrivals, regional processing, intake numbers or assessment procedures.

But as long as we continue to accept boat people, the boats will continue to arrive and people will keep dying. Irrespective of how we deal with the other policy issues, the boats must not be encouraged.For most of them, their assessment can be conducted in one minute:

-They came from Indonesia.
-They were not being persecuted in Indonesia.
-They could have requested asylum at our embassy, but did not.
-They had no genuine need to enter Australia.
-Application denied.
-Deported."Indonesia and India can keep asylum seekers in camps under detention until they die."

Many people live their whole lives in refugee camps. It means nothing in itself. If these people believe that Indonesia and India are persecuting them, they should complain to the UN. 

Asylum is safety. Nothing more. Everything else is a luxury, which depends on the generosity of the host nation. If you believe Australia should be more charitable, fine. But don't confuse charity for obligation.If we allow everyone with a sob story to get automatic entry and citizenship, the Australia you know and love would not remain that way for long.

I don't need a heart. You need to learn how to think more than five minutes into the future.Rabbithole. The answers to your questions are as follows:

1) Most radar detection comes from the plane's radio, radar and electronic signals. If a terrorist switches those things off, the plane is flying blind - but it is also far more difficult to detect.

2) Because these boats *want* the navy to find them. The moment they get to Australian waters, their mobile phones and radios start firing off calling for transport and lawyers. That is how the navy locates them.

3) Because estimates based on satellite pings indicated the plane might have landed near Australian waters. And just because it did, doesn't mean it will be found. The ocean is deep and very large.

4) See answer 1.

5) Because the answers are already known.

6) You assume that the events are linked.

7) See answer 6. 

You reject mainstream media and make up your own truth. You might have a mind of your own, but that doesn't mean you're using it properly."Have you ever asked yourself why this one is so different?"

Because it has budget cuts. People rarely accept budget cuts, especially when it results in them carrying their own weight."I do not want starving homeless people breaking into my property and stealing my hard-earned."

Then the solution is simple. Leave some food on the table. The poor lovable rogues who break into the house will immediately take the food and head back home to feed their poor starving families.

Do you think that will work? Or maybe, you might be romanticising the concept of petty crime?Tom. For two consecutive Labor governments, the poor and lower-middle class were having tons of money thrown at them at a time when the nation couldn't afford it.

This was the only reason for Labor success. But eventually, the budget deficit grew big enough to worry people. Labor became desperate to earn more cash, so it could hurl it at the masses without making the accounts look bad. As a result, they pushed for the mining and carbon taxes.

Now the Liberals are in charge and the budget is being reigned in. The cash is no longer being thrown at the masses, so naturally they're treating the budget as if it were the apocalypse. For the majority of Australians, the budget makes very little change to their life.Tom. 

By your own admission, Howard spent money when he could afford to. And by your admission, Labor blinked when they should have been reining it in.The law makes human shields illegal. If the enemy fights in civilian areas, those civilian areas can become legitimate strike zones.

International law will not allow a militant to become "immune to attack" simply because they launch rockets from a civilian area. The law cannot be interpreted in a way that rewards those who break it.

Hamas should be careful about calling for a UN investigation into war crimes. Since Hamas deliberately fight in civilian areas, Hamas is legally culpable for the deaths that result.
That is the reality, Dubious.

Any other outcome would reward Hamas for hiding in civilian areas and launching unguided rockets at enemy cities. It would mean that Hamas can launch unguided rockets at Israeli civilians without fear of retaliation. 

Hamas doesn't have the ability to defeat Israel using legal tactics. If they resort to illegal tactics, the law will not assist them.Eric.

An occupier has the right to impose their occupation using whatever military force is reasonably required. The occupied may resist the occupation - but only through legal means.

If an occupied people cannot fight by legal means, the law will not recognise their right to resist. The law is designed to minimise civilian casualties. Thus, the law prefers that people be occupied then for people to resist occupation using illegal methods.

As to your other point? Until recently, Israel had no presence in Gaza and merely controlled the borders. Israel is considered the de-facto occupier for a simple reason - it is the only UN Member State recognised in the area."We should not get involved again unless there is an existential threat to the West"

If the Middle East ever poses an existential threat to the West, it will already be too late to get involved. Thus, we must be involved at all times to ensure the threat never exists.

As the Romans say - When your neighbour's house is on fire, your house will burn next. We ignore the fires of Islamic revolution at our peril.At the height of the Roman Empire, the Romans attempted to pacify and control the northern areas of Europe.

Eventually, they decided that it wasn't worth the blood and treasure. The barbarians were no threat to the empire, they argued. Why fight waste time fighting them, when they're too busy fighting each other? Leave them to their forests and let them handle their own affairs.

So the Romans cut their military spending, pulled out of barbarian lands and ignored those regions. And everything was fine....until the day the barbarians stopped fighting each other, unified and decided to march on Rome to settle old scores. 

By the time the Romans realised their peril, it was too late to stop. The Romans had allowed themselves to settle into peaceful decadence, while their enemies had organised and planned for war. Rome was sacked and the empire fell soon after. Those who fail to learn from history will repeat it."Without Rome's invasion of "Barbarian lands" in the first place, the Barbarians would not have had cause to unite and attack the empire in revenge."

Do you know why the Roman empire was formed? It was created when the roman cities united their armies, in response to barbarian invasions from the north.

Your enemies might pose a threat or they might not. But why should you leave the decision to them? 

There is a simple reason why the West will not pull away from the Middle East. Because it means that the Middle East will decide when war with us will occur, instead of the other way around.
ISIS militants are in Iraq because they were driven out of Syria. Kurdish militants are in Iraq because Turkey is too powerful for them to tackle.

If Iraq mobilises significant force with international support, the separatists will literally have nowhere to run.Saddam kept the peace, because he gassed and murdered anyone who threatened to disturb it.

The West could achieve the same in a month, if we wished. We could unleash biological horrors and weapons that would make Nazi death camps seem like amateur's work. 

But the West follows the law. Our moral superiority requires us to do things the hard way. That means working with Iraq to maintain their own control of territory."Obama uses drones. Also has taken upon himself the right to kill US citizens without due process."

Drones are precision weapons on individual targets. Not the indiscriminate slaughter used by Saddam.

As for American due process? It ends at the American border. If US citizens go beyond the border to take part in terrorism, US law ends and the laws of war begin.@Alpo.

You are welcome to volunteer to be collateral damage. That way, we could solve two problems at the same time.Of course, Dove.

Labor spent millions of dollars to buy the seat. The Liberals want to get value for money."Why would Russia agree to a resolution that would allow free and unfettered access to the crash site if they didnt already know the outcome of the investigation?"

If the investigation proves Russian guilt, Russia will simply deny it. They'll claim the evidence is forged and Russia is the victim of western conspiracy. Russian voters and people opposed to the West will believe this without a second thought (and in fact, many believe it already).

Russia doesn't fear the truth. The truth was always the USSR's greatest enemy and the Russians have learned how best to defend against it."Anyone can see that Russia would have nothing to gain from shooting down an airliner"

Nobody says Russia did it intentionally. But Russia has clearly benefitted from the shooting down of the airliner in two ways:

1. Russia can claim the crash is part of an "anti-Russian conspiracy", which helps in domestic politics; and
2. The separatists can use it as an excuse for ceasefire, which they desperately need.

Given these benefits, it would almost be worth Russia's time to shoot the plane down intentionally. After all, they can always deny it and still gain the benefits. 
If Russia decides that it no longer cares about international opinion, NATO will gain nothing from the crash.

But Russia gets a concrete benefit from the crash, no matter how the cards fall."I would have liked you to explain why Putin should be considered a baddy"

He opposes western interests. He annexes other people's territory. He poses a military threat to Europe. Thus from western perspective, he is a villain. Those who support him are likewise villains.

"He has only been calling for a diplomatic solution to the Ukrainian crisis since the beginning"

No. He occupied and annexed Crimea. His militia forces seized Eastern Ukraine. And THEN he asked for a diplomatic solution. Putin's idea of diplomacy is 'I've sent my troops to take your land. Accept it and don't dare to fight back". 

"I'll take Putin over Abbott or Obama any day."

That is your right. I'm sure many people supported the USSR during the Cold War, even as people were shot at the Berlin wall. If you're going to be anti-west, I'd prefer you do it openly.The Russian soldiers were occupying Georgian territory. They were not there by UN mandate, nor were they there by permission of the Georgian government.

Since Georgia was attempting to regain control of territory occupied by Russia, it was not be the "aggressor" of the conflict as far as international law is concerned.Don't be so sure, Mitor.

Hamas launches unguided rockets at Israeli cities. People refuse to acknowledge that each rocket is an atrocity, even though the rockets are the textbook example of "indiscriminate attack on civilians". 

Those same people will view every Israeli airstrike as an atrocity. Even though these strikes use discriminate weaponry and are aimed at specific military targets, meaning they are legal under the Geneva Conventions unless proven otherwise.

Your comment is a case in point. You call the detention of 100 boat people an atrocity, even though it makes no sense in law. And you ignore the point that these people are only stuck on the boat because of their own request for a legal injunction. 

Abbott might be pointing out the obvious. But that still makes his sight better than most.
When terrorists took control of the Moscow Theatre, the Russians gassed the building. The gas killed the terrorists, as well as killing a hundred hostages. 

When you make your stories, it clashes with what is known.
"What invasion of Georgia and Ukraine and when by Russia? Stick to the facts!"

Russia invaded Georgia in 2008. It sent forces into the heartland of Georgia, temporarily occupying several towns. It occupied the port city of Poti and sank several vessels. It occupied the Kodori gorge, which it still occupies to this day.

Russia invaded Crimea a few months ago. Putin initially denied that his forces were involved. Then he admitted that Russian troops were occupying the area for "security reasons". Then Russia annexed Crimea completely.

People like Art are astonishing. Russia could occupy all of Ukraine tomorrow, then deny it was involved - and people like Art would still believe them. In the old Soviet Union, Art would be the model comrade.Just as well you put the disclaimer.

I had concluded you were an anti-west Russian sympathiser until that last paragraph. But I suppose undermining Australia doesn't mean you support Russia, even if it makes you more useful to Russia than to us.You seem to be confusing liberty with luxury, Malcolm.

Your right to privacy on the internet wasn't given to you by someone who fought for it. 

You inherited the internet which private enterprise built and which governments permitted you to use. These groups gave you the privacy, it's logical that they can take it away.Look at it from a different perspective.

Facebook can sell your personal information. They can grass you out to the police if they see evidence of a crime. They can misuse the information for private uses. They can disclose the information to the media. The only issue is whether they choose to do so.

If you have no trouble trusting an unelected corporation with your privacy, why do you have an issue with an elected and accountable government having the same power? 

The issue isn't really about trust. It is about choice. You *choose* to surrender your privacy to unaccountable corporations, but you don't like being *forced* to surrender it to an accountable government.Terrorists don't care about our freedoms, speech or privacy.

They care about causing terror and death as a means of punishing us for our nation's foreign policy. If we allow them to strike us, they win. If we prevent them from striking, they lose.

You are confusing the terrorists goals with your own fears. The terrorists aren't trying to remove your freedom, you're merely afraid of losing them."what is the Israeli army fighting against? Penny bombs."

Imagine that Israel was launching thousands of these 'penny bombs' randomly at Gaza. Would they seem so harmless then?

"where could Hamas go in order to avoid the death of children?"

You answered your own question. The Gaza strip is tiny. If Hamas militants want to fight without endangering civilians, they could simply pick a direction, march for an hour or so and fight Israel on open ground.

Hamas is happy to send raiding parties out through tunnels and ambush small groups of soldiers. But when it comes to large scale fighting, they'd prefer to hide among the buildings of their own neighbours and launch rockets at Israeli civilians.Eric. The right of resistance does not extend to atrocities. 

Hamas's acts of "resistance" are absolute war crimes. The law doesn't consider them a valid form of self-defence and they are not a permissible response to occupation. Hence, they are not something which the law would require an occupier to tolerate.

It is reasonable to criticise Israel's occupation, settlements or blockade based on your political or legal perspective. But it is unreasonable to criticise Israel for defending itself from Hamas rockets.Hamas launches indiscriminate rockets at Israeli cities, which are intended to kill as many civilians as possible and are illegal in all circumstances. 

Israel launches discriminate rockets, which are directly aimed at rocket launchers and intended to kill as few civilians as possible. They are legal until proven otherwise.

You are trying to equate two very different things.Which leads to the obvious rejoinders.

Is the liberty being sacrificed essential? 
Is the safety temporary? 
Is the purchase little? 
Does not deserving something mean you can't have it?I suppose you lot have a bible of "Ben Franklin" quotes to help do your thinking for you.

Me? I work on the assumption that you use what works. Too much freedom is as bad as too little. Ask places like Somalia or northern Iraq."....it's a win for the terrorists"

Islamic terrorists usually claim that their goal was to kill civilians and change American foreign policy. Are you saying that their true goal is to destroy our right to private metadata? 

"any information gleaned is not permissible as evidence in Court because it[s not gained in a manner that is technically legal"

Maybe in America. 

In Australian law, evidence is admitted based on it's utility and the interests of justice, not whether it was obtained lawfully. If we illegally spy on someone and gain evidence of a crime, the judge would rule that both crimes be punished - not for one crime to excuse another.

Our police can already act beyond the law if they don't mind paying the consequences. The new laws just ensure they have more legitimate tools at their disposal.Most people commit crimes for simple reasons:

1. The crime benefits them; and
2. They believe they won't be caught.

A good example is piracy. The statistics indicate that piracy is widespread, possibly seen as reasonable and acceptable by the majority of the community. But if you knew that your piracy was likely to be detected and earn you a jail term, would you be so willing to do it? 

Laws only deter if they're enforceable. And you can't enforce a law without some kind of social surveillance, whether it be police, cameras or internet bots.It wouldn't be hard to convert iPhones and operating systems into sentinels, which monitor your use of data and notifies the authorities if it thinks you're breaching copyright.

For all you know, it happens already. If Apple or Microsoft had it in their "conditions of use" agreement, would anyone notice?"We are, after all, talking about removing freedoms and giving our government greater and firmer control over our lives to protect us against the possibility of being attacked by people who want to remove our freedoms and to exercise control over our lives"

Ah. The old if-we-surrender-our-freedoms-the-terrorists-win furphy.

Terrorists are generally interested in killing civilians, winning a war or changing an enemy nation's foreign policy. 

They don't care about you being arrested for internet crime based on your metadata, or you losing the freedom to take suspicious packages on public transport. These might be your concerns, but not theirs.Splod1. Boat people have travelled halfway across the world to reach us. 

If you consider them neighbours, you must consider the International Space Station to be next door.Carlton's opinion was offensive and racist. His public responses were rude and abusive.

But in the end, he quit for a simple reason - his boss asked him to apologise.Take your pick.

Either the article which singles out Israel for defending itself. Or his forum comments, which are now well documented.I can hardly quote his insults on the forum. Moderation rules, remember?

Besides. It's settled. His comments were found to be unreasonable. His employer agreed. He disagreed and quit. It falls on you to cope with reality however you please.I've read section 18C of the RDA carefully.

After a while, I realised that the section doesn't actually punish you for racially abusing someone. It just punishes you for racially abusing someone within earshot of the public. 

The purpose of the section is not to protect minorities from being abused, but to protect the ears of innocent bystanders who might happen to be nearby.Couldn't they just come for the militant islamists and socialists?

No need to go overboard. There is such a thing as moderation.Fridenza.

Freedom is like any other human right. Taken to extremes, it is incompatible with society.

Society by definition is the restriction of an individual's natural freedoms. The only question is what level of moderation is necessary or desirable."this is the same argument used in all despotic regimes."

It is also the same argument used by democratic regimes. And monarchies. And every other form of government which exists alongside rules and law.

Freedom is not absolute. It has never been. If it were, society would be replaced by anarchy. A fair society doesn't require freedom. It simply requires that everyone has the same level of freedom and are equal under the law.I didn't suggest the law target all islamists and socialists. I suggest the law should target *militant* ones.

The law would target conduct, not opinions."V for Vendetta" was a comic book about the human desires for power and revenge.

The book was far more than a basic social commentary on the restriction of liberty. I urge you to read it and note the differences between the movie.The simplest explanation for MH17 is: Shot down by pro-Russia separatists who are supported and armed by Russia.

The alternatives are:
-Ukraine shot the plane down;
-The plane exploded on its own;
-The West is involved somehow.

If you believe that Putin should not be condemned, by implication you are alleging some conspiracy. Does that not make you a conspiracy theorist?"Firstly, the separatists would require the extensive training to operate one"

The systems are operated by conscripts in Russia. It would be easy for Russia to provide a person with the training, or for a Russian soldier with the training to "volunteer" their services.

"Secondly, the separatists would have to obtain a working BUK system, undamaged, and there's zero evidence that they have ever done so"

There is plenty of evidence. Your rejection of the evidence, simply because you believe they are debunked, does not make the evidence stop existing.

You claim not to believe in magic. So where do you believe that the rebels get all their bullets, supplies, fuel, vehicles and missiles? Do you believe they come out of nowhere? Are there magic factories in Eastern Ukraine which provide all these things?

Russia's soviet legacy means they have no credibility on anything. If they stated the sky was blue, you'd check out the window to make sure. The only ridiculousness is that you believe them today, even after their lies were proven about Crimea and Georgia.
ACJ. If you have seen zero evidence, this indicates the issue is your sight - not the evidence.

Russia previously claimed they were not involved in Crimea. A few days later, they admitted their soldiers were in control of the area for "security purposes". A few days more, Crimea was annexed. 

People like you were leaping to Russia's defence throughout this entire process. And as Russia's story changed day by day, their supporters were struggling to keep up with the new "official truth". And then the process began again with Eastern Ukraine.

This incident with MH17 is no different. The evidence is weighted against Russia and all they can offer is empty denials. All you can do is attack the evidence and allege conspiracy. Reality will prove Russia to be false as it usually does.ACJ has already demonstrated the opposite. He believes his conspiracy theories wholeheartedly.

You might like to present a reasonable case. But it's hard to hide the elephant in the room when it insists on trumpeting next to you.Children would be able to understand the logic perfectly.

From the moment we are born, we are raised on the concept of heroes and villains. We understand that two people can use exactly the same tactics, but motive and circumstances decide which one should be condemned.

I'd then explain that Russia and Syria are villains, hence the action taken against them by the West is just. Naturally, I'd expand on their villainy when the children get older - but Soviet and Syrian history is not something for young ears.Absolutely right, Truth.

Assange helped the Taliban to get revenge on informants. That makes him a terrorist supporter in addition to being a spy and a traitor to the West.

Of course, Assange notified the world of some valid concerns. So I'm sure America will give him a genuine thanks, as they nail him to the wall for all his crimes."the allegations against Hamas have never been supportable"

Surely you joke.

If militants launch a rocket from a civilian area when civilians are present, this constitutes the use of human shields by default. The mere act of firing the rockets from inhabited areas is proof of the allegations. Each rocket is a separate crime.

The rockets are randomly launched at Israeli cities for the purpose of killing civilians. It is a clear violation of the Geneva Conventions prohibiting the use of indiscriminate weapons on cities. Once again, the mere launching of the rockets is sufficient proof of the crime. And each rocket is an atrocity.

If militants fight in an inhabited civilian area without wearing uniforms, they are indistinguishable from the civilians around them. A combatant has a legal duty to distinguish themselves from civilians. Every time a Palestinian militants fails to do so, this constitutes the war crime of perfidy. 

Israel doesn't need to prove that Hamas's actions are illegal. Israel simply need to prove the actions occurred - the illegality of the actions speaks for itself.You suggest that the rockets being launched at Israel are false flags?

I suppose Hamas and Hezbollah are just playing along. Or do you think they're Mossad agents? Maybe you think all the militants in Gaza are imaginary?

Your conspiracies mean nothing to me. And I'm sure that Hamas supporters and Israeli supporters would find your belief equally ridiculous.Mark. Consider the following analogy.

A man has his house confiscated by the government. He disagrees with what happened. And since the courts won't give him what he wants, he resolves to go on a shooting spree.

He walks down the street randomly shooting at people. Eventually the police show up and draw their weapons. The man promptly grabs a civilian and uses them as a shield, while continuing to fire their gun at innocent people.

The police have two options:
1) Allow the man to keep shooting and kill an undefined number of people; or
2) Shoot the man and stop him, most likely killing the human shield as well.

Naturally, the police choose option two. The man and his hostage die and his shooting spree ends. 

Yet you seem to be arguing that the police are as bad as the shooter. Or alternatively, you're arguing that the shooter should have been allowed to continue killing civilians. Why would you argue this? How does it benefit anyone, except the shooter?"You could have added that it was the police who stole the man's house in the first place"

What if they did? It doesn't make the shooter's rampage justified, particularly when his goal is to kill civilians and not police.

"Well how does what is happening now benefit anyone?"

Israel launches attacks on Hamas rocket launchers, because there is a benefit in stopping them. What benefit do the Palestinians have in launching unaimed rockets at Israeli cities?Imagine that Germany had surrounded their soldiers, factories and tanks with children during the second world war.

Do you believe the allies would have retreated and surrendered? Shrugged their shoulders and gone "well, we can't beat them without killing civilians. Might as well give up".

War doesn't work that way. It never has.

When Hamas uses civilian areas as shields, the correct response is to strike Hamas anyway. Refraining from striking will just prove that human shields work, in which case it will become commonplace in every conflict.Mark. Of course not. The bombing raids were targeting buildings. Logically, a building can't take human shields since it isn't alive.

But part of Germany's war crimes were their insistence on fighting in urban areas, rather than allowing these urban areas to be occupied.

This was in contrast to the allies during the opening phases of the war, who would withdraw from urban areas and declare them surrendered to avoid civilian casualties.Generality.

During the second world war, the Americans killed tens of thousands of German civilians. The Germans, by contrast, killed almost no American civilians.

Does it follow that the Germans were the good guys, while the Americans were bad? Of course not. Villainy is based on why you kill, not how many. 

The Americans killed thousands of civilians to defeat a threat to humanity and so, the killings were excused.  Germany, by contrast, based their killings on eugenics and despotism. Even a single death for those reasons would be an unforgivable crime.Hardly an own goal. 

For decades, the USSR and Communist China were strong allies. Even after the cold war, Russia and China continue to support each other in the security council. Any formal Russian-China alliance would simply put on paper what already exists. 

Russia and China are strong trading partners with the West. But the West would never call them allies or friends. And nobody would ever want them as a neighbour, since all it brings is political manipulation (CIC nations) or belligerence (east China sea or Ukraine).
 
Let China and Russia form their alliance. They can form it with Iran, North Korea, Venezuela and any other pariah nation who feels that the company suits them.They were always allies of convenience. 

Naturally, their belligerence and proximity resulted in conflict. But in the end convenience wins.Agreed. The European Union is a trading bloc, with profit and business as their priority. I suspect that even a full blown invasion of Ukraine would not lead to complete sanctions.

China, in contrast, is every bit as bloody-minded as Russia. The population just as nationalistic. The government just as belligerent. Russia wouldn't want to rely on China. But than, who else would have them as an ally?Australia joined the first world war for a simple reason - self preservation.

When the German Empire was defeated in 1919, all their colonial territories were confiscated and distributed to the victorious nations in the Allied Powers. If the German Empire had achieved victory, they would have insisted on similar terms. In which case Commonwealth territories like Australia would have ended up as war spoils.

It is romantic to think of Australia single-handedly fighting occupation. But the same things which make occupation of Australia impractical make defence of Australia impossible. We might fight invaders on the beaches and in the cities......but once we're in the hills, bush and deserts we'll be fighting the land itself.

Australia doesn't have the capacity to defend itself alone. And when the author claims our best defence plan is "don't let them invade in the first place", he reinforces this.I agree.

But since the industry involves parents treating their children like plastic dolls, I think the issue is about child welfare and not about freedom of expression."the Palestinians are acting entirely in self-defence"

The Palestinian militants have three tactics:
1. Randomly launch rockets at Israeli cities, designed to maximise civilian casualties.
2. Launch raids with the goal of taking hostages.
3. Dress in civilian clothes and fire rockets from civilian areas.

These tactics are *highly* illegal under the Geneva Conventions. They do not classify as self defence, ergo they classify as aggression. The ICJ has never claimed that Israel can't defend against atrocities and if they did, the conclusion would be at odds with law.Dove. Those who support Israel advocate that Israel continue to defend themselves against Hamas rocket fire.

Those who oppose Israel tend to advocate that Israel sit back and let rockets hit them without response. Or that Israel should give Hamas whatever they want. Or that Israel should withdraw back and plead for Hamas to stop launching rockets.

In fact, those who oppose Israel's actions seem to sound very much like those who support Hamas's actions. Aside from not expressly supporting the rocket fire into Israel, you'd almost be forgiven for thinking they're the same kind of person.

Just an observation."How can an innocent Palestinian population be "at war" with the worlds forth biggest military machine?"

Hamas is Gaza's elected government. If Hamas is at war with Israel, then Gaza is at war with Israel.

If innocent Palestinians don't wish for war to continue, why aren't they calling Hamas to accept unilateral ceasefire? And why isn't Hamas accepting such a deal?You have simply proven what everyone already knows - palestinians value land and victory more than peace.

Israel is launching air strikes at Gaza because they want to stop Hamas rocket attacks. Hamas is launching those rockets because they want to regain control of land.  Israel fights to defend itself. Hamas fights for material gain. 

Israel is willing to sacrifice Palestinian civilians to stop Hamas rockets. This is crude, but understandable. But Hamas is willing to sacrifice their own civilians by fighting war to achieve their goals - that is tragic and pitiful."I believe ultimately notions of either 'statehood's' are going to have to be abandoned - that is the compromise - and a united Palestinian / Jewish homeland formed, under one parliament, as in northern Ireland."

And what happens if the Palestinians decide the experiment isn't working and try to implement a Rwanda-style genocide, like they attempted in 1947?

Are you or the world going to secure Israeli safety in that situation? And if not, why should they give your idea a second thought? Wouldn't it be more rational to simply dismiss you?

Aside from which, Palestinians want Israel to cease to exist and form a single state with occupied territories. This has been their goal for seventy years. When you call this outcome a "compromise" you're being dishonest."I don't hear people sympathetic to Gaza advocating shooting at Israel."

People sympathetic to Gaza might not directly advocate shooting at Israel. But they're advocating that Israel refrain from defending themselves and surrender to Hamas demands. 

They might not advocate the rockets, but they support the goal the rockets are supposed to achieve. And so, there is no practical difference between them and any other Hamas supporter."My question, again, is why don't we hear more more people advocating more violence against Israel when we do hear advocates of more violence against Palestinians."

Because you're not looking hard enough. The moment you go outside the nice forums with strict moderation rules, you'll see a very different picture. I encourage you to do so.

If the violence is to stop, Hamas should stop the rockets. If people believe that Israel should stop defending itself while Hamas continues to fire, they don't want to stop the violence. They merely want to facilitate it against Israel.

"feel free to think of me as an ally, adversary, fifth columnists, enemy or quisling. I'm not fussed."

Do as you please. We have plenty of people defending Hamas on these forums. If Al Qaeda had been launching those rockets, most of these posters would be getting ASIO visits before long.Moi.

-Searching a tunnel is not a breach of the ceasefire, since it involves no combat. Defending a tunnel from being searched is, since it involves combat.

-Thousands of rockets have been launched from Gaza. Each one was fired by a militant operating in civilian area. Each one is an act of using human shields. When Jeremy Bowen says "no evidence' of human shields he sounds truly mad. As if he thinks all the rockets launched from Gaza are a figment of the imagination.

-The IDF headquarters are not the target of Gaza rockets. Gaza rockets are indiscriminate and cannot be aimed at specific targets. So what is your point?Yank. When you try to present a facade of neutrality, all you do is help Hamas.

Hamas doesn't care if you support them or not. All they care about is that you don't support Israel. And given that their tactics has secured your apathy, it seems they've succeeded.Say what you wish, Yank. 

Hamas would prefer you be sympathetic to Gaza and against Israel. But if you are apathetic to both sides, this serves Hamas's goal just as well.Art.  If Hamas wishes for peace and an end to human death, they can stop the rockets tomorrow. Peace will result. 

If the Palestinians wish to launch rockets for whatever reason, then Israel will respond. Syria and Iraq have been waging war against militants for years. Israel can follow their example. Perhaps after another year of bombardment, Gaza will be willing to talk about peace? 

Until then, let Hamas launch rockets from Gaza. Israel will have a reply for each. At some point, Gaza will decide they no longer want to fight. Or they will run out of rockets. Or they'll run out of people to fire them.And the truth of positions comes out, Crow.

I prefer that Hamas stop firing the rockets tomorrow and civilians stop dying. You prefer that Hamas keep firing until they obtain their goals, no matter how many civilians die."how can there ever be peace with Hamas stopping their stupid flying bits of plumbing whilst Israel never ever ceases to steal their land?"

Peace doesn't have to be fair or just. Germany didn't like the fact that they were humiliated at the treaty of Versailles. The correct approach was grind their teeth and live with it. 

If Hamas insists on resorting to war just because they don't like the peace, they hold responsibility for the results.

You call Hamas rockets bits of plumbing? What do you think would happen if Israel took three thousand of them and randomly launched them at Gaza? That is the only elephant in the living room.The fairness of the treaty of Versailles is moot, Filtz.

Either the Germans had a legal reason for war or it did not. And given that Germany was found guilty of waging wars of aggression, we can conclude it didn't.

Under international law, an unjust peace is preferable to war. Those who resort to war to solve an unjust peace are deemed to be aggressors, irrespective of their reasons."The crucial difference being Germany were the aggressors seeking to illegally occupy land that was not theirs"

Germany believed that land had been taken from them by Poland, France and the allies. And they were correct. The land had been taken as part of their ceasefire from WW1.

Legal claims are just that - claims and nothing more. They don't define reality. 

The fact is that Germany resorted to war to settle a land dispute. Just like Hamas is resorting to war to open a blockade and regain control of "occupied" land."The root of the cause of the present conflict was the formation of Israel."

Actually, the root of the cause is the palestinian people. They have a choice to launch rockets at Israel. Israel doesn't have a choice in defending itself.

As you mentioned, Europe was formed on the ashes of past nations and empires. The UN dealt with the situation by simply dismissing those past claims to the dustbin of history and deeming them irrelevant.

Israel has existed for almost seventy years and was built on the ashes of Palestine. The UN should dismiss the Arab claims like they did all others. Arab land claims will not feed children or bring peace to the region - so why should the UN preserve these claims?Hamas' current stance is: "Ignore request for unilateral ceasefire and continue to launch rockets".

By default, that makes them the aggressor and wrongful party in this conflict. No occupation, blockade or military strike is legal justification for Hamas' continued firing of unguided rockets on Israeli cities.Israel is offering an unconditional peace. All they want is for the rockets to stop and status quo to resume.

Hamas is offering conditional peace. They are using war to better their previous situation, which makes them the aggressor. What is worse, they limit their tactics to atrocities (perfidy, civilian shields and indiscriminate weaponry).Eric. It is not collective punishment to blockade a hostile territory, particularly when the goal is to prevent them rearming. War and open borders are mutually exclusive.

The Palestinians have the right to self-determination. But this right is conditional with peace with their neighbours.  If Palestinians will not agree to peace, they must expect their threat will be repressed by war and occupation.

Palestinians use nothing but illegal tactics. Their sole objective is to circumvent Israeli defences and kill as many Israeli civilians as possible. Before Iron Dome, they used rockets on cities. Before checkpoints, they used bombs on buses. Before the wall, they used infiltrators. Before the Israeli army existed, they used armed mobs.

If you believe Israel is not without sin, than you must logically consider Hamas to be nothing but sin. Why then, do you support Hamas but not Israel? Because you want Israel defeated by any means.Eric. Will you post more journal articles? More non-binding advisory opinions? More general assembly resolutions?

The colonisation of land, legal or otherwise, is no legal justification for Hamas tactics. Neither are the blockades or the settlements.

Palestinian tactics are *expressly* illegal under the Geneva Convention and do not count as valid self defence. When these tactics are used against Israeli civilians, Israel has the legal right to respond with appropriate force to stop these atrocities. To conclude anything else makes a mockery of law.

That is a hurdle your logic cannot defeat. Spare me your attempts to try."Given the blockade, occupation and military strikes are illegal why can they not defend themselves?"

Blockade, occupation and directed military strikes can be legal depending on the circumstances. In the absence of a legal judgement, they are legal until proven otherwise.

The launching of indiscriminate weapons at civilian areas is illegal in *all* circumstances. 

Israeli war crimes are a matter of opinion. Palestinian war crimes are a matter of fact.Dove. People who support Palestinian militants tend to use the terms "Israel", "Jew" and "Zionist" interchangeably. 

I'm not sure why you're trying to get Percy to tidy up his comments and make them more politically correct. Using polite language to hide his intentions would just make his comments worse.Gerald and Helvi.

Gaza is a very densely populated area. Approximately 2 million people live in the urban zones. I'm not sure if you understand the significance of that. It's comparable to the population of Paris or Rome.

After a month of conventional bombardment of the area, approximately 1500 people have died. The casualties represent less than 0.1% of the population and is incredibly small given the circumstances. It indicates that Israel's attacks are aimed at specific Hamas targets and civilians simply get caught in the crossfire.

Yet for some reason, you believe the casualty levels are not modest or reasonable. Why do you believe this? And in comparison to what? Iraq? Syria? Libya? Chechnya? 

It seems you and Helvi are the ones taking strange positions.Palestinian rockets are indiscriminate. They are the worst kind of atrocity, irrespective of how many civilians they kill. 

Israeli attacks are discriminate and aimed at the rocket launchers. They can be legal, but Hamas rockets will never be."The Islamic world could finish Israel off tomorrow if they tried."

They've tried and failed several times. If they had the money to try again, they'd fail again.

I'd say it is Israel who could finish off the Islamic world tomorrow if they wanted. In theory, Israel could wipe out the Islamic world if they spill a cup of coffee on the wrong button.Since I didn't use the term "Arab" or "Muslim" in my post, I'm not sure why you feel the need to correct me on their use.

But more power to you, I suppose.Actually, the separatists should have claimed that they thought the plane was an Israeli city.

The world would have ignored the deaths and blamed Israel for the whole incident.Ukraine can't just sit back while Russia annexes another part of their territory.

If the separatists want to be part of Russia, they can leave Ukraine at any time. But they can't take a chunk of Ukraine with them."As dictated by international law, we are obliged to make an assessment of their claims for refugee status."

Agreed. And since the majority have travelled through nations where they were no longer under persecution, their assessment  can be conducted in a manner of hours (if not minutes). And once rejected, they can be deported.

"Under international law we cannot return them to the country from which they have fled persecution"

Actually, international law only requires that we don't return them prior to assessment. The author has admitted they haven't been assessed, but she assumes they are genuine and fleeing persecution. Seems the good doctor would prefer to be a social worker.

At any rate, most of these asylum seekers were in Indonesia or Malaysia prior to attempting to reach Australia. They weren't being persecuted in these countries, so sending them back to these countries doesn't constitute refoulement. If they are assessed as non-genuine we can send them directly back to their country of origin and it won't be refoulment.

"Life without certainty - wherever that might be - is intolerable."

Perhaps. But certainty is not a human right. It is a luxury enjoyed by those living in a stable, first world democracy. The majority of the world's population live uncertain lives. The author should not confuse good fortune for entitlement."we can only send people to Indonesia and Malaysia with the consent of those governments."

The boat people did not need our permission to arrive here. They do not need Indonesia and Malaysia's permission to arrive in their nations.

"Indonesia and Malaysia have not signed the Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees there is a danger that these non-signatory nations would send these refugees back to their country of origin"

It would not be a breach by Australia, since neither the choice or action would be ours. If the UN has an issue with Indonesia deporting people to their country of origin, they can take it up with Indonesia. I'm sure Indonesia will have some choice words in reply."If any nation other than Israel would murder and maim so many people we would have an agreement to have severe sanctions imposed."

Wrong. If any other militant group was launching rockets at any other nation's cities apart from Israel, the military response by that nation would be accepted with little question. 

If anything, the condemnation of Israel is the anomaly. It is led by people who want to assist Palestinian militants to win a conflict. This is why they insist on raising their voice, while ignoring all the other conflicts around the world.

The "jewish lobby" if it exists, is nowhere near as large as the hordes of anti-Israeli lobbyists around the world.Judy. There is nothing wrong with being emotional about the death of civilians.

But when your emotions lead you to condemn Israel and demand that they stop defending themselves, you cease becoming emotional and start becoming a supporter of Palestinian militants.Art. Do you honestly care about civilians? Then you should be calling for Hamas to accept Israel's offer of unconditional ceasefire.

But it seems your goal is for militants to win a conflict against Israel.Rob.

The middle east is not the cradle of humanity's demise, except if you count the oil that ultimately ends up in the atmosphere.

Provided that Islamic militants don't start hijacking planes or blowing up European subways, the conflicts in the middle east have no relevance to 95% of the world population."the conflict going on in Israel is the root cause of Islamic terror across the rest of the world."

The conflict in Israel is an excuse, nothing more.

Terrorism doesn't require an excuse. It merely requires a terrorist. So the root cause of islamic terror will always be the people who carry it out.Art. The right of resistance does not extend to war crimes. International law is 100% clear on that, even in the judgements most skewed in Palestinian favour.

Palestinians can resist Israel. But they are not allowed to do so by launching rockets at Israeli cities, fighting in civilian clothes or hiding in civilian areas.

In most military conflicts, citizens will flee a warzone and leave the city empty so the fighting can occur without civilian death. If Palestinians insist on fighting in the Gaza strip, the UN should be evacuating civilians from Gaza - not bunching them up in large vulnerable groups.Until a few weeks ago, there were no Israelis inside Gaza Strip.

So how could Israel feed or water the people in Gaza? For that matter, how could Israel occupy them?There were no Israelis in the Gaza strip a few weeks ago.

If there were no Israelis in the strip, how could they occupy it? How can you occupy something without being present?"Where on earth will the UN put over 1.8 million people from the Gaza Strip?"

There are 43 million displaced people on the planet and the UN doesn't care for most of them. The entire population of Gaza isn't even 1% of that total.

If the UN offered to evacuate Gaza of all civilians, why would Israel want to interfere? They'd probably donate money to help.The UN is a political body. The security council is based on the opinions of the veto powers. The general assembly is based on the opinions of world nations, most of whom tend to be poor, corrupt and anti-west.

Why do you believe that a UN judicial body should be any less political? And how, exactly, would it stop militant groups from launching rockets at cities? 

If all a judicial body does is let militants and terrorists operate freely, while punishing any nation who tries to defend themselves, what is the point of the judicial body or the law they enforce?It wouldn't work, Terry.

The palestinian militants would turn on the UN police force. Or the militants would continue to attack Israel, meaning the UN police force would become human shields and get in the way of Israel's counter strikes.

There is only one solution. Israel needs to keep bombing militants in Gaza until the palestinian rockets stop and/or the militants agree to surrender.

If the militants refuse to do this, then the UN should be focusing their efforts on evacuating all civilians out of the Gaza Strip. Not bunching them together in big groups in the middle of a warzone.The Israelis have been clear from the start. Stop the rocket fire on Israeli cities and we'll have a ceasefire tomorrow.

Palestinian militants aren't interested in stopping the conflict on these terms. They are interested in continuing the fight until they get all the concessions they wish to obtain from Israel. They don't care how many civilians die in the process, whether Israeli or palestinian.

If people are interested in peace and stopping civilian casualties, they should be unifying to demand that both sides begin a unilateral ceasefire. If people demand Israel do anything more than that, they're just being cheerleaders for palestinian militants.You call it a false dichotomy, Dove. But is the case?

It might seem fair to condemn Israel and Palestinian militants equally. But such condemnation hinders Israel and has virtually no effect on Palestinian militants. So while the action is equal, the effect is not.  

Equal condemnation is not neutral. And condemning Israel alone is clearly not neutral. 
No. What is your point?

A unilateral ceasefire will end the casualties and the conflict tomorrow. If Hamas refuses a unilateral ceasefire, they are the ones prolonging the conflict.Don't be dishonest, Trent.

The Palestinians are not being slaughtered because of something that occurred in 1967. The Palestinians are being slaughtered because they are launching rockets at Israel today.Theo. Israel can bomb a single Arab or a billion Arabs with equal ease. 

So it would be very unwise for the Arabic world to attack Israel, no matter what the future might have in store.Gaza was originally part of the Palestinian mandate.

Israel is the only UN member who arose from the mandate. In the absence of any other UN Member States claiming the land, Israel would have the best legal claim to it.Eric. You claim Gaza is part of the state of Palestine.

But if the General Assembly voted on this, would the "state of Palestine" be eligible to vote? 

If not, why?

If the "state of Palestine" is not a member of the UN, what makes you so certain they have territory or sovereignty for the purposes of the UN Charter?

Many nations don't recognise Israel or it's territory, even though Israel is recognised as a UN member state. 

Why should anyone recognise the "state of Palestine" or it's territory, when they don't even have that?The law has always been that way, GLA.

If enemy forces fight in civilian areas, these areas become legitimate strike zones. The onus is on Palestinian militants to refrain from fighting in civilian areas, not for Israel to refrain from striking the militants. 

The law is not designed to protect people who use human shields. If Israel refrains from striking militants simply because they hide in civilian areas behind human shields, it will encourage the militants to do the very things which the law is designed to prevent.

Palestinian militants could easily leave the Gaza strip and fight Israel on open ground. Their choice not to do so is deliberate. They launch rockets to maximise Israeli civilian casualties. They hide in Gaza to maximise their own."Why do POW persist in trying to get out although they know in most cases it is futile and might get them killed."

A false analogy.

A prisoner of war will lose their life as a result of their actions. A Palestinian militant launches a rocket, then runs and hides so only the surrounding civilians will pay the price for their actions.

Many Palestinian civilians have claimed "we don't care if we die, as long as Israel is defeated". If they don't value their own lives, why should anyone else?"Any argument that you can make for gay marriage can be made for polygamy." 

I'd agree. I'd add that the same arguments could also be made for bigamy and inter-familial marriage. It can also extend to child marriage or marrying animals (though in those cases, consent becomes more of an issue).

The objection to these things are social. If society wants to change the law, they have the capacity.

I have a feeling the author only wants a limited extension of the right to marriage. But it might be interesting to see whether he thinks the right should be extended further still, and what his reaction might be.
It means nothing to me either way.

The author claimed that he wants to extend the right of marriage. Perhaps he should be a bit clearer about how far he wants the right to be stretched and where it should stop?"When jobs are sparse, it means that you've got to apply for more jobs to get a job"

It makes perfect sense. 

The less jobs which exist, the more applicants will be applying to each job. This means a particular applicant will be less likely to get a job they apply for. The less likely you are to get a job you apply for, the more jobs you'll need to apply to before you'll obtain one. 

Conclusion: when jobs are scarce you want to encourage people to make *more* applications. Not less.

Our poor author might be flummoxed with such complicated thinking. But then, I suppose that's why he doesn't have any responsibilities at a national level. Better for him and better for us that he sticks to commentary.In my experience, people who claim the "left doesn't exist anymore" tend to have views associated with left-wing politics. They want the opinions, but not the label that comes with them.

I suspect that it results from social perception of their position. Socialism, anti-Semitism and creationism are now perceived negatively, so the people associated with these groups wish to redefine language to escape their labels. Left-wing politics is in a similar situation. 

This is why we have socialists arguing that the USSR wasn't really socialist. Anti-Semites take up entire forums arguing about the proper definition of the term "Semite".  Creationists try to present their views as intelligent design. The left argue that they're actually the centre and the left no longer exists. 

It's not true, it's just an attempt at repackaging.Eric. There has been no ruling on the legality of the Israeli occupation. 

Occupation isn't illegal in itself. In the absence of a legal ruling by a full bench of the ICJ, the Israeli occupation is presumed legal under law. Meaning your opinion is literally at odds with the law.

The occupation of the Palestinian territories occurred because the land was seized from Egypt and Jordan in the course of a war. There are no special circumstances which make this occupation inherently illegal, when compared to any other occupation of land in recent history.

It is very unlikely that the ICJ would ever rule that an occupying force has no right to enforce an occupation. Doing so would be inconsistent with the occupying force's right to self defence in the face of attack. It is also incompatible with an occupying force's responsibility under the Geneva Conventions to enforce control and order over the regions they occupy. 

You have posted a single advisory opinion in the past. But it is not a legal ruling. And since it is at odds with basic legal principles, it's safe to conclude that the opinion and yours are fatally flawed.Both Jordan and Egypt have willingly surrendered their claims to the territory occupied by Israel. The ceasefire agreements did not require Israel to withdraw from those areas. 

You are arguing that the Palestinians can use force against Israeli occupation forces, but Israeli occupation forces aren't permitted to use force in return - this is incompatible with the right of soldiers to defend themselves from harm.

You are arguing that Israel has the rights, responsibilities and duties of an occupying power, but no right to physically enforce these things - a bizarre position seemingly incompatible with the concept of occupation.

You are arguing that Israel's occupation is illegal because it is against the wishes of the Palestinians. But since all occupations are unilateral yet not all occupations are illegal, your reasoning is clearly flawed. 

In all cases, your arguments cannot be correct. If they were, it would twist international law to the point of absurdity.Eric.

Look at the international laws on occupation. You will see that while occupation is always a temporary state, there is no expressed requirement for an occupier to end their occupation by any particular time or in response to any particular event.

If Israel were breaching it's obligations as an occupying force, this provides an argument that Israel should meet these obligations. It doesn't mean the occupation is illegal and must end. You are confusing the legality of the occupation itself with the legality of the occupier's conduct on occupied territory.

As I've shown, your arguments make no sense when applied to legal principles. Since you've made no attempt to explain the contradictions in your argument, I'll assume you can't and insist that you do.

Palestinians have the right to resist. Israelis have the right to occupy. I'm accepting the totality of the law. Your bias means you only accept half of the law.
An opinion article in a law journal? Surely you're joking, Eric.

If you could provide me with a binding legal judgement which *expressly* indicates that occupations must cease by a certain time or in certain circumstances, please provide it. Or failing that, an instrument of law. 

In the absence of these things, your journal article would seem to be taking creative liberties with the law of occupation. This is even worse than your arguments, which merely get the law wrong.The 90% acceptance rate was merely because we lacked the willpower to deport them back to Indonesia.

Our government is turning back the boats now. So in effect, that means 100% are assessed as not genuine. So much for your statistics.Karen, leave the legal arguments to the professionals.

The boat people are detained due to being unlawful non-citizens under our legislation. Since their detention is consistent with legislation and results from due process of law, it can't be considered arbitrary.

Once detained, boat people are free to cancel their asylum claim and be deported. Since they can agree to deportation at any time, their detention can't be considered imprisonment or punishment.

Everyone has the right to seek asylum and to be free from persecution. But if we decide they are not genuine refugees, their only right is to be promptly deported.

Your comment regarding the allies is funny. Do you actually know why millions of Allies fought and died in the world war? It was to uphold the sanctity of national borders. If Germany hadn't been violating borders, the war would never have happened.Ingenious.

Our nation doesn't need to share its wealth with the citizens of other nations. Australians don't need to publicly announce their "greed" merely to satisfy your ego.

All Australia needs to do is confront your opinions and denounce them. Your attempts to undermine our borders and our standard of living will not succeed.Ingenious. You made a simple demand - Share the wealth or admit we're greedy. 

The fact that you want us to make admissions merely to satisfy you is proof of your arrogance and ego. If you can't get what you want, you demand for people to admit you're right. 

You wish to undermine our borders and reduce our standard of living. This should be denounced and resisted, irrespective of your motives for doing so. Good intentions are no excuse for trying to cause bad consequences.Forgive me.

Are we talking about refugees or open borders? Or socialism? Or all three? You're using such general terms, it's hard to be sure.You are sadly wrong. As the detainees can cancel their claim and be deported at any time, they are not imprisoned. 

Furthermore, a person does not need to be convicted of a crime before they can be detained. They can be detained for mental health, medical or border reasons, none of which involve a crime or trial.

Since the boat people are detained under the migration act, any writ of habeas corpus will fail (and has failed). Habeas corpus merely requires a detaining party to provide legal justification for the detention. Once it is demonstrated that the person is an unlawful non-citizen and legally detained under the migration act, the writ is defeated.

The allies fought to uphold the borders of Europe and liberate occupied areas. Most of the rights abuses of the Nazis only came to light after the war. When you try to use the Allies as champions for refugees, you misuse them for political reasons. Kindly stop. 

Truman. I'm stating facts, not opinions. 

If you want to comment on Australian law and the circumstances when people can be detained, it helps if you read the relevant legislation.

Kindly start.The Greens, Labor and Palmer don't have the nerve to criticise Abbott's actions.

They fear the potential backlash if they do. So they put it in the "too hard" basket and leave it to their voters, who'll do the job on their behalf for free.Joe. Rabbit's theory is bizarre. But the fact he made the argument makes perfect sense.

The people opposed to the West include pro-Russians, socialists, anti-Semites, Islamic fundamentalists, conspiracy theorists and militant left-wingers. Many of these groups would seem to be natural enemies, yet they are unified in their opposition to the west.

What is common to these groups? Irrationality. It's almost a waste of time trying to figure out which particular form their madness has taken. Or which one has Rabbithole in it's grasp.Art. If you believe that a secret group of Americans are trying to bring about doomsday, you're free to do so. 

But I'd suggest your belief is evidence of your irrationality, not of theirs.Art. With each post, you sound more unhinged.

The leaders of the pro-Russian separatists are affiliated with right-wing, racist and nationalist organisations. Some are affiliated with the Russian government. As for Russia itself, Putin is as right wing as they come.  

You can throw around the term "fascism" as much as you wish. The reality is that Russia and the separatists are the right-wingers here and you are the one banging their drum.

Our police aren't in danger from Ukrainian forces. The only danger lies from the separatists, who are on record for taking a number of hostages including media, politicians and international observers. Or course, the separatists prefer to call them "guests" or "bargaining chips".Wow? Marrying a daughter conquered a nation? Sounds too good to be true. 

Maybe you should go back to the history books and check the details. Alexander and his army did a lot more in Afghanistan than march around marrying chieftains' daughters.Agreed.

Most of Saikal's articles consist of scolding the West and urging them to leave the middle east, as a thinly veiled attempt to support Islamic militant groups.

This article is the first he's written in some time which bordering on neutral. It is no wonder that anti-west posters would start pulling out their hair and accusing him of being a western plant.I'm sure that NATO and the Western nations have plenty of evidence. But they're unlikely to disclose most of it to the public.

Why would they bother? Those who disagree with the West will dismiss the evidence, no matter what form it will take. They'll say it was forged or created a day before the crash or some other excuse.

On the other side, there's little point considering Russian evidence. Over the last fifty years, they've developed a record for censorship, falsifying evidence and "accidently" shooting journalists as they're being transferred to a police cell. A reasonable person would disbelieve Russian claims on principle, unless overwhelming evidence was available to support their words.There's nothing wrong with reporting on our leader's actions. But likewise, there's nothing saying our leaders need to facilitate the media unless it suits them. 

If the media want to report 'gotcha' news, they can do their own digging."But the budget backlash suggests that there are limits to what a reactionary government can do when the people push back."

Quite true. But it seems you accidently used the word "people" when you meant to say "obstructionist senate".

If the Liberals had a non-hostile senate, the budget would already be old news. The majority of people would soon realise it has little effect on their lives and Labor would need to find their next gripe of the month.I've noticed the actions of a vocal minority.

What you fail to realise is that a budget's passing depends on how the Senate votes, not how many people you can cram into a public street.

If the budget fails or passes, it will be the Senate which does this. Not the actions of protestors."if you are going to war, you'll have to be willing to take in refugees the war always creates"

Really? Since when? 

People only have refugee rights when they're being persecuted. War, starvation, disease and poverty are all terrible things - but they don't confer any refugee rights in themselves.

Even if it did, refugees are supposed to go to the nearest nation where they can be safe. They don't get a ticket to Australia, just because Australia happens to be a participant in the war they're fleeing.

The lower middle-class pay a greater proportion of their income on fuel.

The poor pay a greater proportion of other people's income on fuel.If people choose to obsess over the details of his suicide, they undermine their own dignity more than they'll ever affect his.

As for the author's gripe? The media can peddle whatever trash they please. Barring a faulty battery in your remote, nobody's forced to watch anything.Being interested those events is not strange in itself.

But if you start focusing on the details of individual victims merely for your own personal interest, it becomes more ghoulish. 

At any rate, the only dignity at stake is yours. And unless you're very outspoken in your hobbies, what happens between you and your dignity isn't anyone else's concern.You might want to consider America's war exports, when compared to their total exports.

The war economy is a figment of imagination. The military-industrial complex is a mental complex, not a literal one.

I'd say the opposite of your statement is true. The USA is a peace economy. If it were not for the continual wars draining their revenue, the richest nation on the planet would have an economic empire spanning the globe.Dove. The China test does not work, because it implies that all nations are equal.

China is a communist dictatorship. From a democratic perspective, the Chinese government has no right to control their own citizens, let alone the fate of other countries.Power projection is no different, Dove.

Both Germany and America bombed cities during the second world war. Both Germany and Russia invaded Poland at particular stages. In the Korean War, both the Allied forces and North Korea occupied Seoul. Both America and Russia have invaded Afghanistan at different times.

But though their actions were the same, their motives are not.  Two similar actions can be assessed differently depending on who does it and why.Aeon. Imagine that a bank robber and a police officer are involved in a shoot out. 

Both sides have guns. Both sides resort to violence. Both sides inflict injury on the other. But in the end, the bank robber is the criminal and the police officer was acting lawfully.

Why? Because correctness doesn't just depend on the means. It depends on who does the action, why and whether they have a right to do it.If people reaped what they sowed, the world would be a very different and fairer place.

I doubt the universe interferes on a geopolitical level. And Robin Hood, however you view him, was a fictional character.Rashid. The UN is a collection of nations. Dictatorships sit next to democracies. Corrupt nations sit next to transparent ones. The greatest violators of human rights have seats on the Human Rights Council while the most respectful nations do not.

Israel didn't need to ask the UN's permission to exist and would still exist irrespective of their vote. If the general assembly voted tomorrow that Palestine did not exist and never would, I doubt the Palestinians would care what they think.

The UNO is a mirror. It only reflects the world, it does not change it."I find it bizarre that the Kurdistan events are judged as genocide, yet the circumstances in Gaza are not."

That is because the comparison lacks perspective. Millions died in Rwanda and Cambodia. Millions died in Germany during the second world war.

The events in Gaza are no different to any occupation or war, except the civilian casualties are far lower than usual.

There are two problems with your proposal.

1. Even if the UN is empowered to intervene, who will provide the soldiers and weapons?

2. Do you really want world policing to be based on whether the General Assembly thinks it's a good idea? 

Western intervention simply underlines the reality of the modern world. Either the West polices the world, or everyone does as they please.The difference is arbitrariness. 

In America, your legal rights depend on the constitution and legislation. In China, your legal rights depends on who you know in government and whether you've upset them."I haven't seen much evidence from the Russia-bashers to support any of those allegations of yours."

I haven't seen much evidence of Russia occupying and annexing Crimea either. Does that mean it's just a figment of the West's imagination? 
The treaty only allowed Russian soldiers to occupy their bases. Not anywhere else.

The Russians claimed they were not involved in the Crimean unrest. Then they claimed they were occupying Crimea for security reasons. Then they annexed Crimea completely.

Crimea's vote was independently verified as unlawful, being in breach of the Ukrainian constitution. Without the permission of Ukraine, Russia's actions constitute annexation.
Imagine that a Hamas militant is hit by a missile strike.

Remove their balaclava and their weapon, they'll look no different to another civilian. 

I don't hold the UN Commissioner's report in any regard. Was he on the ground, watching what the dead "civilians" were doing just before the missile hit? Or does he just take Hamas's word for it?It's funny.

With the return of Russian belligerence, we're also seeing a return of soviet-style "whataboutism".The average Russian is practical.

They know there is no good in blaming Putin or their government. So they'll just direct the blame and hatred in some other direction.Moi. The Ukrainian civil war isn't going to stop merely because the separatists shot down a civilian plane.

At any rate, the rebels are losing ground each day. Soon, our investigators will be able to investigate without the need for a ceasefire.
Moi. The crash site will reveal nothing new. 

We already know where the plane landed and why it crashed. The remaining parts of the investigation involves the black boxes and other external evidence such as satellite imagery.

I'm sure you realise this. So I conclude that you're either pro-Russian or you're just anti-Abbott.Peter. You keep repeating Russian propaganda.

Crimea was part of Ukraine. They can't split from Ukraine without a national referendum, as provided in the Ukrainian constitution. 

The Crimean referendum was constitutionally invalid, so Russia's actions constitute military invasion and annexation. The law is clear. Russia needs to be punished and sanctioned until Crimea is returned.Your answers:

1. Russia is trying to arrange a ceasefire to delay the rebels' looming defeat by the Ukrainian military. First they asked for a political settlement. Then they wanted a ceasefire for the crash. Now they want a ceasefire for humanitarian reasons. Same goal - different excuses.

2. Evidence isn't publicly released until the investigation is over.Clancy.

Capital punishment is incompatible with the idea of a review-based legal system. But it is still arguable from a rights perspective as a way for society to defend itself from dangerous individuals.

At any rate, the human right to life is inalienable. This means that an individual cannot permanently surrender this right to another individual or to the State, even if they wish to.Metronome.

Does that mean that you're only nice because you think it leads to spiritual reward? If the bible told you that burning children was the way to heaven, would you be reaching for the jerry can?

At the end of the day, religion is just a way for smart people to trick stupid people into behaving a particular way. 

If you want to be nice, you don't need religion to justify it. If you want to be horrible to people, no amount of religion will excuse your actions. Once you realise that simple truth, you've outgrown any need for religion.She already got pardoned for being female.

How much more slack does she need?If she had been male and making equivalent comments to a female, she would have been hounded out of politics.

She got off lightly. That is the only double standard here.We should never forget that Russia is a nuclear power. It is their defining feature.

Without their nuclear weapons, there would be nothing to differentiate them from the next overpopulated, belligerent, anti-western nation.Don't get your hopes up.

Given how often Putin's supporters uses "fascist" as a derogatory term for their opponents, they would be quite offended if you called them right-wing.

I'm sure some of the nicer progressives in Australia might send a protest in Putin's direction. But most extreme left-wingers consider him an ally of convenience against the "Dastardly West", so they forgive his little indiscretions.The left create their own nonsense, Umma.

Russia is little different to what it was thirty years ago. They're back to annexing their neighbours and funding revolutions. Why would the left-wing suddenly find that distasteful?"Hamas firing off its pathetic fire crackers is a last resort"

Nonsense. The only reason these "firecrackers" do no damage is because Israel spent millions building bomb shelters and the most sophisticated missile interception systems known to mankind.

Imagine that Israel created a thousand Hamas-style rockets and randomly launched them into Gaza. Could you imagine how many Palestinian casualties would result? And how much condemnation would occur? 

In the end, there is no legal excuse for Hamas' actions. As long as Hamas resorts to hiding in civilian areas while launching unguided rockets on Israeli civilian areas, Israel has the moral high ground to take the actions you see today."There is no excuse for stealing Palestinian land, none what so ever!"

That remains to be seen. The land is disputed. 

Let the Palestinians complain to the courts, if they wish. But if they launch unguided rockets into Tel Aviv, they give legitimacy and legality to Israel's military actions."Hamas are certainly, from all accounts are culpable, but the retaliation seems just a little excessive"

Not so. Israel's only alternatives are:

1. Military action against Hamas; or
2. Sit back while rockets are launched at Israeli cities; or
3. Give Hamas what they want.

Option 2 is unreasonable. Option 3 just encourages Hamas to use rockets as a means of getting concessions. Meaning that Option 1 is the only rational alternative.

Under international law, Israel has the right to use whatever level of force is reasonably necessary to stop the rockets. You should think about what that might involve."Maybe Israel should stop stealing Palestinian land as an act of good faith?"

Why? Pulling out of Gaza led to more rockets. Releasing prisoners for captive Israelis just results in more captives being taken.

Concessions to Palestinians do not work. If Israel gives concessions in response to Hamas actions, it just encourages Hamas to commit the actions again in the hope of getting more concessions.

The West knows this. It will not reward Hamas, because this will encourage the West's enemies to use the exact same methods on them.It is not for Australia to make decisions on the G20 Convention's behalf. If the convention wishes to exclude Russia, all the more power to them. If not, let Russia come and endure the frosty reception of the civilised world. 

Either way, Russia won't lose sleep over it. Short of North Korea, they have the most experience at being a global pariah.AJC.

During the cold war, millions of people supported the USSR. During the second world war, millions supported the Axis powers.

Millions of people in the third world might support Russia, China, Iran and North Korea. But they are no less deluded. Those who support them are complicit in their deeds.You waste your breath trying to use reason, Yank.

Putin could mobilise the Russian army and invade Ukraine tomorrow. Half his supporters would praise him for doing it, the other half would deny the invasion is even occurring."A solution will be found in separating the Russian speaking parts into the Russian Federation."

Ukraine will never willingly accept this outcome.

If Russia is going to return to their old habits of annexing their neighbours to solve disputes, the world will assume they're returning to soviet-style villainy and treat them accordingly.Yank.

The hundreds of thousands who died in Iraq died due to Islamic militants and sectarian violence, not as a result of our military actions. We don't need to pay for a commission to know that.Western forces overthrew a dictator and established a democracy. The issues in Iraq were not caused by the West. They were  caused by Kurdish and ISIS militants, who have taken up arms against the elected government.

The author is trying to pin the crimes of Islamic militants on the West. It makes as much sense as blaming Israel for Hamas rocket fire, or blaming the Allies for the second world war.

It makes me wonder, what is the author's true intentions? Given that he is criticising Western involvement, I think he prefers an Iraq where Islamic militants can operate freely. These militants seem to be the only groups who benefit from articles such as this."Subsequently, the invasion has killed and maimed hundreds of thousands of Iraqis, sent millions sent into exile, taking with them the skills and education that will take generations to replace."

This occurred due to Islamic militants, who terrorised the population with car-bombs, gun attacks and kidnapping.

Once again, it makes no sense to blame it on American soldiers. You don't blame the Americans for the people murdered by the Viet Cong. You don't blame the Allies for Nazi war-crimes. So why blame American soldiers for the actions of the very militants they were fighting?

"To the Americans, the likely financial cost has been estimated in the region of $2 trillion, vastly in excess of the fifty or sixty billion that was confidently projected on the eve of the invasion."

Actually, the cost was well in budget for the invasion. The remaining costs resulted from a Shiite Islamic insurgency and the more recent Sunni insurgency led by ISIS.

Besides. Obama and the democrats could have ducked and ran within a week if they wanted to. Heaven knows, they ran from Vietnam quickly enough.
Nixon signed a peace agreement with a promise to recommence military action if North Vietnam attacked. 

The Democrats subsequently tore up the agreement, blocked further military assistance, quietly pulled out the remaining American forces and left South Vietnam to it's fate as the North advanced.

The democrats are proud of what they did. You can deny it, but you can't hide it.Tyranny thrives when good people do nothing.

If smugness and defeatism was the means of defeating tyranny, your posts would create a better world."I wonder if the Iraqis want to punish the guilty for invading under the yet to be found weapons of mass destruction. Their toll is not 200 odd but 10000 per year."

Islamic militants kill those 10000 per year. 

I think the Americans would be quite offended at being blamed for those deaths, given the number of American soldiers who died trying to stop those militants.It's difficult to respect a cyclist when they consider themselves a class of their own.

Pedestrian or vehicle, you can't be both. But many cyclists think otherwise.Denialist - Do nothing. There is no need.
Pragmatist - Climate is changing, but it's too late and difficult to stop. We need to prepare for the change.
Idealist - We need to stop climate change, even if it damages our economy and development.

In the end, pragmatism will always win. Especially when the problem is too large and the solution too difficult.


Politicians swear to serve the Australian monarch. Not the British one.

That is why our laws are made by the Australian Parliament and not the one in the UK."If Australia is separate from the UK, why do we have a UK born PM who was trained/brainwashed in the UK all expenses paid?"

Because Australians voted his party into Parliament.

"How much investment does the UK imperialist empire have in Australia and Australian listed companies?"

Given that you already believe that America controls our business sector, not much. But I suppose the British Crown could be controlling America. I suppose you'd be the expert on that.

"Why does the UK through the GG (The Queens rep in Australia) have the power to dismiss a democratically elected MP as PM?"

The Governor General is the one who appoints the PM in the first place. It would be daft to have the Governor General appoint someone without having the power to dismiss them. Furthermore, the position of Prime Minister doesn't exist from a constitutional perspective. Abbott is democratically elected as a member of Parliament, nothing more. His position as Prime Minister is conferred by the Crown. 

"If this is not the epitome of foreign ownership of a nation, I do not know what is."

Clearly the latter.

"All they had to do after that is start calling them 'Abandoned Originals' or 'Aboriginal' for short"

Actually the term is derived from Latin (Ab Origines  "From the Beginning"). When you claim that settlers followed Terra Nullius, this is a fiction. Ask any settler why they were taking the land, they'd respond it was the right of conquest.For once, Dubious, you're correct.

The Governor General sits at meetings of the Federal Executive Council while the Prime Minister does not. The Governor General is the head of government. The Prime Minister is merely a ceremonial position.Dove.

The Queen isn't a citizen of the United Kingdom either. It is ridiculous for her to be a citizen of our nation because from a sovereignty perspective, she *is* the nation.The sovereign is the Crown. The Crown is the Government. The Government is the State. 

This is why monarchs aren't considered citizens of the country they rule. An Australian citizen is a subject of the Crown. Logically, the Queen of Australia can't be her own subject.Rabbithole.

If railways, electricity, food, water, mines and banks are a public resource - the public should completely fund all of them. Imagine the tax burden you'd have to pay for it all.

It is a bit ridiculous to let the private companies develop everything, then turn around and try to claim that the assets built by them actually belong to the "public".You play the same game as everyone else, Pancake. You just count different kinds of coin.

It's easy to claim to be dismissive of capitalist values when you're "better off than average". Money and financial security gives you the luxury of being able to choose your priorities.

If your choice was between unethical work or starving, I have a feeling you'd be less particular about your standards and less likely to boast about them.Every vocal minority sees themselves as a silent majority.I'd prefer a direct scheme based on financial consequences.

The Government calculates the cost of dealing with the effects of climate change, such as bushfire response, flood damage and drought relief.

The Government's costs for the year are totalled. The proportion of these costs attributable to Australian emissions (1% of global total) are imposed on industry via a levy, which in turn is apportioned by a company's actual emissions. As the economic cost of responding to climate change continues to rise, the levy continues to increase. 

This ensures that the business sector is paying for the actual costs they cause, rather than jump through hoops based on arbitrary emission reduction targets. Likewise, the government is seen to be recovering costs rather than using carbon as an excuse to raise revenue.And there is the rub, debunker.

If the companies are not causing any real economic cost to Australian society through their emissions, why should they be expected to pay any money?

Likewise, if companies are causing economic costs to our country, they should pay the real costs. Not some arbitrary cost based on an ideological desire to reduce emissions.Yank.

A communist approach would be to demand that businesses pay money as part of some undefined "obligation" to society. Or to impose a tax tied to profits in a blatant attempt to cover budget gaps, using the argument "they're rich and they should pay for our spending". 

Good examples of communist taxes were Labor's carbon tax and their mining tax scheme. I think you supported these initiatives, Yank. Which is odd, given your last reply.The carbon tax wasn't going to do much good for the country and would not make any significant effect on global climate change.

It was created for ideological and financial reasons. It was rejected for practical and economic reasons. 

So you shouldn't feel so disappointed about the tax's failure. Like Frankenstein's monster, it was created with the best of intentions - but for the wrong reasons and at the wrong time.NgWallco. You make a good argument, but I don't find it compelling.

As fossil fuels inevitably become more expensive, the renewable sector will thrive under market forces. As the sector develops alternative energy technology, it will become cheaper and more efficient. 

It pays for Australia to sit back and wait to benefit from cheaper technology - not to take on the costs of having to develop it ourselves. Given that market forces will eventually need to do the job, there is no need for our economy to suffer the costs and  disruption which result from artificially forcing the change.

I find it very unlikely that Australia has the capacity to become a "leader" in renewable technology as far as research is concerned. Even if we do have the capacity, we lack the manufacturing capacity to benefit from it from a domestic or export perspective. 

The only argument that favours a carbon tax is the doomsday argument (i.e. climate change will destroy the world before market forces save us - the tax is needed). But since Australia's carbon tax wouldn't impact global emissions, it is difficult for this argument to succeed. If the tax isn't a solution in itself, implementing it becomes a gamble.Earth will be using renewable resources for a very long time in the centuries to come. There is no need for us to rush and develop the renewable sector prematurely.

In the next century, fossil fuels will become very expensive and low in supply. When that time comes, the private sector will trip over themselves in their eagerness to develop alternative power sources. You certainly won't need to force them by taxes.

But until the renewable sector is genuinely needed, forcing it to develop will just lead to disruption and cost.Ian Plimer - If we listen to the Greens, we'll be living in caves and having to smelt our own spoons.

Tiresias - That's a scare campaign. We'll be using chopsticks.....or our hands.
Empathy means you consider and understand other people's feelings.

It doesn't mean you need to assume their feelings are reasonable or correct.The terms are not an attack on all men. The terms are an attack on those who are guilty....and assumes all men are equally guilty.

If you run to court simply because someone offended you, everyone is demeaned. It is doubly so when you're complaining that you were offended by a vehicle."Snowden and others making a good case that the public owns it"

Even if this could be argued as a basis for releasing it to the Australian public (which it isn't) this doesn't provide any basis for Snowden to release it to the public of other nations.

"Is this the sort of world you want where the government can keep secret files on you to be used against you for any reason?"

A world where people are convicted for crimes they try to conceal? Oh, the injustice......"So was Daniel Elsberg wrong in obtaining and releasing the Pentagon Papers?"

According to law, it is arguable he was. But since his trial was thrown out for procedural issues and never recommenced for political reasons, we'll never know for sure.

If Snowden claims to be innocent, let him go to court and have his argument tested. Why do you find that so objectionable?"It's up to Snowden."

And that's where it all falls down.

Snowden is happy to talk about democracy and the people when it suits him. But the moment these things are no longer convenient, it's up to Snowden.Whistle-blowers have their place. 

But if whistle-blowers claim to act for the people and the public interest, their actions should be judged in the court. Let the law decide if their actions were justified.

If you believe that revealing a crime should excuse you from your own crimes, the rule of law means nothing to you.He's also hiding from his democracy and their law.

He claims to champion the people and democracy, but he refuses to be accountable to them or their laws. The true poster child of a progressive activist.Snowden acted without any democratic mandate and he is refusing to be held accountable for his actions. He is still beyond America's reach.

By contrast, the "over-bearing" security state was easily beaten by a court case and a congressional bill. Meaning that as far as accountability and democracy is concerned, Snowden is the greater villain.You miss two points:

1. Why should the NSA's abuse of power be punished, while Snowden's actions to reveal them be beyond accountability? Crime does not excuse crime.

2. Snowden could have availed himself of whistle-blower legislation which would have provided him with legal protection. He chose to do otherwise.Bruce.

The moment the American government starts dismissing the legal system, they are accused of abusing their power and acting against the public interest.

If Snowden is going to dismiss the legal system and hide from it, he should be subject to the same accusations.The government is elected by the people.

If the elected government passes laws to keep information secret, those who release the information do so in defiance of the elected government and the people who elected it.

The "people" decide what secrets should be kept. That doesn't mean that you, individually, can make the decision on the people's behalf. The government is elected. You are not."The people have never elected a government on the platform of secrecy legislation."

The people don't elect governments, period.

They vote for the Parliament (or Congress). If the house of representatives choose to pass laws allowing the government to keep secrets, the keeping of secrets is democratically mandated.

If you have an issue with a government keeping secrets, your issue isn't just with the government. You also have an issue with the representatives who made the law and the people who elected them.The Germans undoubtedly have spies in America.

The only difference is that the Americans don't crow about it when they get caught. America needs it's population to like Europe, while Europe doesn't care about the opposite.Ingenious.

Being a paranoid lunatic doesn't mean you're wrong. 

I'm sure that plenty of conspiracy nuts were proven right by Snowden's leaks. But since their conspiracies were never based on evidence to begin with, their way of thinking remain irrational.Actually, the current law means it is unlawful to offend a person based on race when you're in a public area.

The law is designed to prevent you offending the public. If you racially offend a person in a private conversation, the law does not apply.Democratic governments have the mandate to keep secrets, as provided by legislation and law.

If whistle-blowers are concerned about breaches of the law, they have sufficient means by which they can bring their concerns to the relevant authorities. The law will protect them and ensure their information is heard.

This issue is about political activists - people who leak secret information because of their political leanings or because they disagree with the policies of the government of the day, not because the information proves illegality. The law can and should punish them, especially when they misuse their position to release the information.

Some of the evidence Snowden released *might* have revealed a crime. But even if this is proven, revealing a crime doesn't excuse him from the crime he committed. The rest of the information he released was merely a political dummy-spit. If Snowden was that passionate about politics, he should run for office and stay out of the intelligence sector."Do you really think that the government can be trusted to tell us what illegal activities the government is doing?"

No. But neither do I trust you or Snowden to make decisions on a democracy's behalf. 

Our government is accountable to courts and Parliament. Who is Snowden accountable to? According to him, he's accountable to nobody but himself. And you seem to have no problem with that."Snowden didn't sell the info to foreign enemies"

He provided the information for free.

"nor did he reveal specific details of what the likes of PRISM discovered"

Are you so certain? Maybe you should consider a career in intelligence?To answer your questions:

(1) Yes, since our government is derived from (and subject to) a democratically elected Parliament; and

(2) Yes, to the extent that the legislation of Parliament permits."I will vote for people who will make Snowden a hero and jail those he exposed. If enough of us do that, on your logic you lose."

Meaning until that occurs - you lose.

Snowden needs to wait a long time. America just needs to wait until they can bring him to justice.Because some people only respect the law until it clashes with their political leanings.If Palmer wants to keep the bastards honest, he should start with himself. 

And while he's doing so, he might start reading the Senate's Standing Orders. That way, there's less chance that he'll stuff up his own attempts to amend legislation.Criticising Palmer is a mark of desperation? I'd say the opposite. 

If you're attempting to rely on Clive to stick it to the Liberals, you must be quite desperate. But Rudd and Gillard are fallen. Shorten is stuck in opposition. Who else do you have?Or  the day when the majority of Australians realise that they can't feel much difference between this "unfair" budget and the last one.If the underprivileged are being carried by society, cutting their benefits isn't "attacking" them. It just means they need to carry more of their own weight.

And if the budget mainly hurts the under-privileged, those who are not underprivileged will not feel the pinch. So the budget will feel more fair to them.

Graazt. What is fair about being a burden on others?Rabbithole. People vote for their representative. Not the political party. 

If a person wants to vote independent, there's nothing stopping them from doing so. If people want to vote for a representative who associates with a political party, that is their right. 

You are the only person trying to undermine democracy here. I'm not sure whether you're a socialist or just anti-corporation, but Australia doesn't need any "single-party state" nonsense like what you're proposing.The members of Parliament are elected to make legislation, nothing more.

The ministers of Government (including the Prime Minister) are appointed by the Governor General to administer the country and determine policy. The Governor General uses the numbers in Parliament to guide their decision on who they should appoint as Ministers.

If a member of Parliament is appointed as a Minister, their ministerial roles are separate and distinct from their role as a parliamentarian.Trent.

You made plenty of predictions about the ALP over the last few years. How many times were you proven right? How did Rudd and Gillard fare? How did the last election fall?

If anything, your belief that the Liberals will fail is almost an assurance they will succeed.Harvey. If Australia wants to benefit 100% from their minerals, they should completely fund their own mining.

If we rely on foreign investment to get rocks out of the ground, you have to expect that the foreign owners will take their share of the profits.Your understanding is wrong, Bahbet. The Japanese refused to accept an unconditional surrender and resolved to treat it with a cultural approach we would refer to as "silent contempt".

When the first bomb fell, the Japanese war cabinet got worried and met to discuss surrender. When the second bomb fell, the cabinet ended the meeting and moved to an immediate vote. 

Even after two bombs, cabinet was tied and the Emperor had to make a deciding vote to opt for surrender. The pro-war ministers argued that they could wait America out. After all, they argued, how many nuclear bombs could America possibly make?

Abbott didn't praise the deeds or crimes that Japanese soldiers committed. He praised their commitment and determination, but noted that people did not agree with what they did.

If Abbott had spent the time pointing out Japanese war-crimes, you'd probably be on the forum criticising him for being a poor diplomat. I suspect that you problem is not what Abbott said, but with Abbott himself.

Furthermore, Japan's actions might have been monstrous. But they didn't do anything to China that China hasn't done themselves (in some cases, to their own citizens). I'm not going to lose any sleep over China's sense of outrage. Being the world's largest dictatorship, they've earned every outrage they're given.I don't believe China deserved the atrocities which occurred to it during WW2. But until they become a democracy, I don't care whether their government is offended or why it might choose to take offence.

If China's government doesn't care about whether it's actions offend the Chinese people, why should we care whether our actions offend the Chinese government? 

Besides, what is an offended Chinese government going to do? Produce obscenely cheap goods? Unfairly modify it's currency values? Start drilling in the East China sea? Veto the west's proposals in the security council? Cancel business deals which are "no longer in the national interest"?

They already do these things even when we don't offend them. So if they are offended, they'll have to wrack their brains to figure out a way to become more obstructive than they already are.China isn't propping up the West. The West is propping up China.

Chinese people riot when the local official makes a decision they disagree with. What do you think would happen if China stopped trading with the West and entered a full blown recession?The government has policies you disagree with. That doesn't make them a dictatorship.

The mark of a democracy is not the decisions it makes, but how these decisions are mandated. If a democracy has the mandate to keep secrets, it might be less open. But it is no less a democracy.They promised openness and transparency. They didn't promise to stop keeping secrets.

A briefing involves a meeting. Not necessarily where you're told everything you want to know. Next time a politician makes promises, you might want to note what they're saying.Two issues, Graazt.

1. The fact that the Liberals are less transparent on border issues doesn't mean they haven't become more transparent in other issues. 

2. The mandate to keep secrets comes from Parliament. This is because in the age of FOI and disclosure, the Government can only keep secrets to the extent that legislation permits them.1. 
That is for Dave to prove. Or rather, disprove. He is the one saying the Liberals failed to keep their promise. 

2.
I can't recall the Liberals specifically promising to keep people in the know about their border operations - it seems an unwise and unnecessary promise to make.A good reply, GJA. But Rabbithole has already made a post which uses the word "dictatorial" literally and not metaphorically. 

It kind of puts the wind out of your sails and makes it seem like you share the same perspective.
You want the answer?

A bunch of well-intentioned fools tried to undermine our borders.  Australians became "bastards" to prevent those fools from inflicting further damage."Ending ones life is the most difficult thing any living being can do."

Killing yourself is quite easy. It's so easy, many people succeed in killing themselves without thinking. 

Death is an inevitable phase of the human condition. So that means *living* is the most difficult thing a living being can do. The worse conditions become, the more difficult living becomes. 

And people forget - if self-harm is being used as emotional blackmail, it's unlikely that the self-harmer will actually kill themselves. Doing so would defeat the purpose of harming themselves in the first place.If you let asylum seekers into the country because they hurt themselves, you just encourage more asylum seekers to resort to self-harm when things don't go their way.

The best thing is to politely dismiss and ignore the author. He's well intentioned, but he just isn't helping.What good are you achieving, Helvi? 

Open borders? Or self-harming asylum seekers, who cut themselves to exploit your compassion? Face it. Your opinions are a complication which bring us no closer to any solution.Nice idea, Bazza.

But it won't be an open-door policy. People will be rejected, or they won't like waiting in queue. So inevitably, some of those people will try to arrive by boat....and we're back to square one.

The Liberals have realised that any solution to this problem must directly address the boats, or it isn't a solution at all. If you don't turn the boats back, they will continue to come.Quite right, Helvi.

But unless there's been some serious changes in Norway, I doubt they'd succeed in applying for asylum."There is no argument against voluntary euthanasia that stands up."

Actually, there are plenty. And your failure to acknowledge them is the reason why the euthanasia lobby isn't gaining any ground on the legal front. At the moment, your lobby has failed to address the following issues:

1. Suicide is an act which every other aspect of our social systems tries to prevent.

2. If a person is suicidal, it is arguable they are no longer capable of making their own medical decisions. In most cases, telling someone you want to kill yourself will put you in a medical ward.

3. Euthanasia is assisted killing. It has no medical purpose, making it incompatible with a doctor's medical oaths. It is also incompatible with the right to kill, which is restricted to defensive purposes. 

4. In the broadest sense, euthanasia is a violation of the human right to life (which according to the UN Charter, is inherent and incapable of being surrendered).1) This isn't about making suicide lawful. It is about whether we should encourage suicide, when every other aspect of our society works on the principle that suicide should be prevented and discouraged.

2) Suicide is only rational if you assume death is preferable to life. This assumption flies in the face of human philosophy and law. And given that doctors treat suicidal thoughts as evidence of irrationality, how can it follow that a doctor could judge suicide to be a rational act? 

3) The Hippocratic Oath and right to kill are not unchanging. But they are not changed lightly, nor are they changed for the sake of personal convenience.

4) The right to life is inalienable, meaning it can't be willingly surrendered. And remember you are not talking about the right to life - you're talking about the right to kill. Suicide and euthanasia are two different things.Until you experience death, there is no logical reason to assume that it is preferable to life.

So how can we assume suicide is rational, when in all other respects it seems contrary to human nature?The UN Charter provides a right to live. Not a right to die.

We only violate a person's liberty when their actions violate the rights of others. Likewise, we only end a person's right to life when they pose a threat to the life of others.

The UN Charter says no one shall be subjected to torture or to cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. But none of this supports euthanasia. 

Torture and cruelty require a positive action. Preserving life will never be inhuman, since life is essential to the human condition. If all human life has inherent dignity, preserving life can't be considered degrading. It is not a crime to live, nor is it punishment to keep someone alive.

Gods do not make laws. Neither does John Stuart Mill.

At any rate, Mill's argument assumes nobody else is involved in your death. 

If you harm another person at their request, it is no longer your personal business. Your action becomes subject to society's laws, judgement and interference.Graazt. Your final sentence is the nail in your argument's coffin.

If you believe we should treat humans the way we treat animals, this should give you pause.Of course. 

But you are not arguing to treat animals more like humans. You're arguing we should treat humans more like animals. 

Once you take away the assumption that death is a benefit, your line of reasoning becomes chilling.That's nice, Anne. But you're only one person.

Some euthanasia advocates believe that suicide should be permitted for people who are old. Or for people who are depressed and just want to end it all. Or for anyone, anytime.

Some euthanasia advocates believe that there should be no checks or balances. Others believe a doctor's certificate should be required. Some believe a doctor should carry out the deed. Others believe the button must be pressed by the person seeking to die.

If euthanasia advocates can't ever agree among themselves, why should they expect a person opposed to euthanasia to agree with them?And I'd bet you would change your mind if you opted for euthanasia, only for medical technology to improve and render your death tragic and pointless.

Medical science will increase with time. But suicide will never be anything more than a surrender to despair.The question was neither rational, nor objective.

I would not be okay watching a relative die in pain.

Neither would I be okay with you kill them. Irrespective of whether you claimed to have permission.The right to kill is one of the most restricted rights in our legal system. If we are going to extend the right in any way, there needs to be a compelling reason.

Society isn't worried about what euthanasia means for suicidal people. Society is worried about what euthanasia will mean for those who carry it out. How many killers do you want living in your community?Rob. Every single euthanasia advocate has a different idea of what they're advocating and what they believe society should allow.

This disunity is why your lobby will fail."In theory the jury should be able to nullify."

No. The jury is supposed to determine the facts and apply them to the law. If they ignore facts or law to satisfy their moral views, they've perverted the course of justice and undermined the rule of law. 

For this reason, many legal systems do away with juries altogether.There is a difference between sacrificing your life and surrendering it.

People who choose euthanasia believe that the state of death is preferable to life. Thus, they seek death for it's own sake.

Do you believe human life has an inherent dignity and worth? Then it must follow that suicide is undignified and worthless."There will not be peace until the building of townships in the West Bank stops and those that are there are evacuated."

Israel pulled out of Gaza and militants continued to offer violence. Israel releases prisoners and militants continue to offer violence.

It's fair to assume that if Israel pulls out of West Bank, militants will still offer violence. Why? Because past events indicate that concessions to palestinians do not work. It just encourages the militants, who reasonably conclude that more violence will lead to more concessions.

The cynic in me believes that if all of Israel pulled up posts tomorrow and left for other shores, palestinians would follow them with bombs. It certainly wouldn't surprise anyone, given their reputation.If the Palestinians stopped launching rockets, the Israeli bombs would stop.

If the Israelis stopped dropping bombs, the Palestinian rockets would continue.The Israelis started Cast Lead for no reason? That's a good one.

The Palestinians were digging a tunnel near the Israeli border. Israel raided the tunnel. Hamas started launching rockets . When they continued to do so against Israeli warnings, Operation Cast Lead began.If the West Bank stops using violence, it means violence stops being used against them.

It doesn't mean the occupation ends. The occupation is a separate issue, requiring a peace agreement to solve.When Arabs took control of East Jerusalem in 1948, they demolished the synagogues and forced the Jews to leave the city.

If Israel had done a similar thing to the West Bank in 1967, the Israeli/Palestine conflict would have been ended decades ago.Proportionality is based on the concept that force should be the least necessary to overcome the enemy threat. 

It doesn't mean you only get to kill one enemy soldier for every soldier they kill of yours. Proportionate force is not the same as equal force.You clearly don't pay attention to current events, Rabbithole.

If Israel disappeared overnight, the majority of conflicts in the Middle East would continue. Islam would continue to repress moderates. Militants would keep blowing up civilians in the streets. Civil wars would continue.

By contrast, if the Arab League disappeared overnight, the Middle East would be at peace by next morning. And that gives you a true indication of where the fault lies.What makes you think the UN is neutral?

The General Assembly contains the entire third world, including every dictatorship, sham democracy and Islamic theocracy on the face of the planet. The UN is as biased as the sum of its parts.A typically one-sided article, trying to portray the Palestinians as third parties to their own war.

I have a suspicion that if Hamas militants waved guns in his face, he'd be a little more concerned about the outcome. And naturally, his west bank experience isn't complete until an "harmless" Palestinian youth has thrown a rock at his head.It's not a good idea to use Jesus as an example of a refugee.

He fled to Egypt to avoid persecution. The moment he was no longer in danger, he returned home. I think most people would be glad for refugees to follow Jesus's example.The West has no intention of attacking China. They would much prefer that China stick to it's own borders and become a democracy.

China's intention is to expand beyond their borders and bully individual neighbours. If China's neighbours attempt to form any kind of organised defence, China will see it as a threat.
Collaborative pacifism only works when your enemy is a pacifist. 

In other situations, it just results in your country getting occupied.The term "enemy" and "pacifist" aren't mutually exclusive. Neither are the terms "friend" and "war-monger".Actually, Dubious, you are wrong. It was a war of conquest. Quite different and quite legal. 

Although after 1901, it would be accurate to say that the indigenous people were fighting an illegal war against the Australian nation.Rest assured, Dubious. If Australia commemorates the "Frontier Wars", the names of dead settlers and soldiers will be on the plaques. Not the names of their enemies.

Six British colonies united to form the Australian nation. It follows that those who wage war against the nation must be foes and traitors. Do you really think they'd get on our war memorials? Do you really think that Australia will celebrate those who died trying to kill Australian settlers?

Furthermore, your final statement is loaded. The occupation and conquest was always legal. Mabo has conclusively proven this to be the case - you've cited it often enough to know better.Rabbithole.

Your mistake is that you apply modern legal standards to a situation it didn't apply to. That makes your argument irrelevant dribble.

Most of the third world was colonised by 1901. Yet you seem to think all these colonies were illegal. That leads me to one of two conclusions. Either the whole world was wrong, or you're wrong. I'll pick the latter."It was international law not to invade another community."

In 1800? According to whom? According to what international body? 

Do you have any idea how many wars, invasions and colonisations occurred between 1800-1900? You'd suggest every one was illegal, based on some legal rule you simply assume existed.

Time for a reality check. What the law doesn't censure, it permits. There has been no prosecution of our invasion of Iraq and Afghanistan, so it's assumed to be legal. It falls on you to explain why reality doesn't accord with your opinions, not for me to defend why it's so.You've summed up the nature of legal rights. It's a unilateral system, created by a sovereign and imposed on you by force.

If I'm trespassing, you can get the crown's police officers to show up and help you enforce your rights of ownership. 

Without the crown or the police, your rights consist of whatever you can enforce. If someone can take your land from you, it follows that the land is theirs.It might seem trite, but "possession is nine tenths of the law" is actually a legal maxim. One of the oldest legal principles invented by man - as old as the concept of property itself. 

In the absence of any other law, you own what you possess and nothing more.
Our war memorials don't list the thousands of Turks, Japanese and Germans who died trying to kill our soldiers. 

Why would our memorials list the indigenous Australians who tried to kill our nation's settlers? 

At best they were enemies of Australia. At worst, they were traitors. As far as history was concerned, their "resistance" was just a collection of crimes generally committed in isolation to each other."If the Chinese invaded Australia today-"

Key word being today. With different laws, situations and nations. That comparison is invalid.

"I don't think we should be commemorating wars at all"

Which puts you more at odds with the author then it does with me."Why should one group of Australians be favoured over another group simply because they won?"

You ignore a more important question: why should any Australian be commemorated for killing other Australians?

I await your reply.
You believe the intention isn't to commemorate individuals?

I'd suggest you should actually *read* the article and note what the author is actually asking for.Take your pick. The author's argument has two main prongs.

1. We should accept that indigenous Australians died in a war against Australia;
2. We should commemorate their deaths on the Australian War Memorial.

Our memorial is designed to celebrate the names of those who died defending the nation. Not to celebrate those who died in a conflict against our nation's founding. And if killing those indigenous Australians was so shameful as the author suggests, why commemorate their deaths at all?

If the indigenous people want to recognise the deaths of their ancestors (which might be taboo anyway, depending on their culture) they can build their own monument. Nobody is stopping them.

But putting their names on the War Monument? The author has only suggested this to provoke outrage and cause trouble.All wars are armed conflicts. It doesn't follow that all armed conflicts are wars.I agree with your conclusion. I disagree with your reasoning. 

The legal community has decimated entire forests in their attempts to debate the definition of a war. I find it amusing that you think the question can be solved by consulting Oxford Dictionary.
Cassandra. The only reason that Israeli casualties are low is because the Israelis have gotten used to avoiding Palestinian attempts to kill them.

If Israel built Hamas-style rockets and launched two thousand at Gaza City, how many casualties do you think would result?If the allies had lost the war, their colonies would have been the spoils.

Australia would have been given to Germany as a prize. And if we decided we weren't going to wear it, we'd be facing Germany alone.The Mabo decision reaffirmed the sovereignty of the crown and declared that this sovereignty was not subject to question.

Honestly, what do you think is going to happen? The UN is founded on the principles of democracy. They're not going to take away Australian sovereignty and give it to 1% of the population - and certainly not for something that happened over a hundred years ago. 

Furthermore, Mabo only applied to a specific tribe. The tribe in question lived on a specific island and dealt with their land in very particular ways. The Mabo case did not apply to nomadic groups on the mainland. This is the reason why native title needed to be created by legislation - it wouldn't exist on the mainland otherwise.Your sights are higher then Her Madge, Dubious.

You don't just think that the Sovereign is invalid. You also think the entire nation is invalid. At any rate, Mabo defeated your arguments long ago and the UN doesn't care.If you read your posts, you'll notice that YOU are the one complaining about reality. Not me.Terra nullius is a legal term.

In Latin, the term means "land belonging to no one". 

In law, the term means "land which is not currently subject to any unified sovereign state".The monuments are reserved for those who died for the nation, not for those who died trying to resist the nation's creation. 

The author only has one intention. To provoke outrage and set back reconciliation to satisfy his own bitterness. This article is no different to the "invasion day" banners or the tent embassies.If the indigenous Australians want to remember their past or culture, they're free to do so. 

But most non-indigenous Australians barely care about their own culture and ancestry beyond a personal level. Why should they be expected to care more about someone else's? 

If Australians erected a monument tomorrow commemorating the conquest of indigenous Australia, it would set back reconciliation a good couple of decades. If indigenous Australians try to commemorate those who fought against Australian settlers, they should expect the same.

But then, the indigenous Australians aren't the one's suggesting this. The author is. You might ask why.The memorial is designed to commemorate the Australians who sacrificed their lives for Australia. Not to commemorate the lives of our opponents, worthy or otherwise.

The author argues that the memorial should commemorate the names of indigenous people who took up arms *against* Australia. Some of these people might have died in the very process of trying to kill Australian settlers, making them traitors or enemies as far as the memorial is concerned.

It would seem that either:
a) The author is confused about how war memorials are supposed to work; or 
b) The author is the academic version of an internet troll.

Given that he's a reconciliation advocate, I'll assume the latter. He's not interested in reconciliation. He just wants to provoke outrage and aggravate the wounds of the past, so reconciliation becomes all the harder.You are the only one whitewashing history.

Did the indigenous people wage war against settlers? The author suggests they did. So this means they were enemies and/or traitors to our nation. Why would we put them on a war memorial?Nations are formed by groups of people, not chunks of land.

The nation of Australia was formed by settlers. If indigenous people were fighting a war with settlers, they were one of two things: either they were enemies of our nation or they were traitors.Cassandra. The killing of civilians is only a war crime in very specific situations.

If the Geneva Conventions wanted to make every single civilian death a war crime, it could have easily done so in a single page. 

Instead, it just lists specific sets of circumstances in which civilians aren't allowed to die. They omitted the phrase "killing civilians is illegal in all cases". You should think on why."So, based on the 'logic' on display here, which side were the 'traitors' in the USA civil war"

The confederacy attempted to cede from America when they had no constitutional right to do so. American law is quite clear on the fact they're traitors, even though it sticks in the southern states' throat.

"why do their memorials include both sides?"

Because their memorials are made for the civil war, not war in general.

"Especially as your brand of logic would have it that doing so would get in the way of reconciliation"

In America, there are two kinds of people. Those who don't care about the civil war and those who do. The latter group are usually affiliated with the confederacy, bitter about their loss. Reconciliation comes from moving beyond the past, not dwelling on it.

"why is there a problem with recognising the fallen and the valour displayed by those on both sides of the frontier wars that took place during the occupation of Australia?"

Because one of those sides died fighting the Australian nation. It is offensive to include their names on a memorial designed to honour people who died for our nation or in defence of it.Dove. Several leaders of the confederacy were tried and punished for their attempts to rebel.

There is only one reason that the Confederate soldiers went home after the war - there wasn't enough rope to hang them all. Most civil wars tend to end that way, but it doesn't lesson their treason.Situation 1: People wearing shirts saying "I hate Abbott" and shouting with anger in the street.
Situation 2: Abbott talks calmly in front of a camera. People raise signs behind him without his knowing.

You don't see any difference, Yank. And that is why political debate has hit rock bottom. Labor plumb the depths, their voters justify it by making ridiculous comparisons. Labor uses it as an excuse to sink even lower and the cycle continues.

The Labor party is smart. They've realised they don't need to lie about Abbott, misrepresent him or portray him as a monster. Why? Because the ALP voters will do this on their own initiative - free of charge and beyond accountability.Rabbithole. You keep claiming that our government is no better than a dictatorship.

But what is your so-called solution? You want to ban political parties. You want to prevent lobby groups from having a say and block political funding. You want to restrict how elected members can vote in Parliament and outlaw bloc voting. 

Very alarming suggestions. It sounds like you're trying to create a dictatorship - or possibly a single party socialist state. It wouldn't surprise me if that was your intent.You think this is shocking? It might only be the start.

Rolf Harris can always appeal the decision. If he succeeds, history will be rewritten again and he'll transform into a poor innocent man who was maliciously slandered. Artwork will be salvaged from the bin and childhood memories restored.

If the prosecutor appeals his appeal, he'll once again become a hideous predator. The art goes into the bin for a second time. And once again our childhood memories are tarnished.

It pays not to take court cases as an indicator of reality. It'll just give your sense of reality a bad case of whiplash.
Astro. Those 90% were assessed as refugees for two reasons:

1. They arrived by boat; and
2. We didn't want to deport them to Indonesia.

If those people had arrived by plane without crossing other nations to reach us, there is far less chance that they would have been assessed as genuine. The statistics are fairly clear on that.

Fact is, the boat people were never genuine. They weren't being persecuted in Indonesia. They could have applied for refuge via our embassy, but they didn't. They had no good reason for crossing our borders directly - except that they wanted to exploit a flaw in our border policy. 

The Government was accepting them for political reasons. They're no longer willing to do so, which is why the boats are now being turned back.@Historyrepeats. If history has proven anything, it is this: The strongest walls are made from bullets, not bricks.

Food prices, oil and climate change will eventually cause millions of people to seek refuge. It is fair that these people will do whatever it takes to find safety. And it's fair that these nations will do whatever it takes to stop them.

Humans are already willing to kill for petty reasons. So when the reasons start to involve living space and food, you can be sure that humans will do even worse.Better to block your ears and not feel guilty, than to block your eyes and keep walking into a pit.Only three problems, Yank.

1. The people haven't been assessed, so there's no way of knowing if they're a refugee.

2. If they're sent to Indonesia, it is quite unlikely that they will be tortured or persecuted by the Indonesian government,

3. These people could have availed themselves of UN camps or Australian embassies in countless countries. They had no reason to directly violate our border, so their claim isn't genuine.Yank. Transparency is only required to the extent that democracy requires it.

At the moment, lobby groups are trying to open our borders to undefined numbers of uninvited migrants. If they succeed, it may cause serious problems for our nation in the years to come.

If these lobby groups don't have access to information, their ability to undermine our border policy is reduced. I'm willing to forgo my access to border information, if it prevents these lobby groups from doing the same.

ThatFlemingGent. The democracy represents the will of the people. 

You are the one threatening to take to the streets to overrule democracy. As far as totalitarianism goes, you are exactly the kind of "would-be tyrant" that our democracy should be worried about.

Here's the facts. The majority of people don't want open borders. And the majority of people don't want an open-ended policy that lets asylum seekers into the country without limit. Labor and Liberal policy reflects this.

You think different. But you are a vocal minority. As time grows, boats will increase. People will become more worried and your opinion will become an even smaller minority. Do yourself a favour and just give up, will you?Interesting position, DG.

Unfortunately, it leads to the same question which continues to remain unanswered: "What are we going to do when the limit proposed by you is reached?"It's a bit unfair to assume that the author's failure to get a job was because of her disability.

It's possible that the interview panel was simply being warned by HR that if they rejected her application for any reason, she might accuse the panel of discrimination. 

It would be a fair assumption for HR to make (and given her words in this article - a correct one).It's reasonable to assume that discrimination occurs generally.

It's irrational to assume that discrimination occurs in a specific case, unless you have conclusive evidence to support it."I didn't get that job, or the one after that, or the one after that. I had two degrees, I was desperate for work. But I also had, as the chair of that particular interview panel so astutely observed, a disability."

Sounds like a persecution complex to me. Each time the decision doesn't go her way, she assumed that it was because of her disability. Easy to assume - but not so easy to prove. 

And given that she's issuing her complaints on this forum, to whip up a lynch mob willing to take her word for it, the article seems quite vindictive.

And Helvi? Kindly refrain from slander. You can find more rational ways to make your point, if you try hard enough.And what is the solution you'd propose? 

Ensure that people with disabilities always get what they want, because any attempt to refuse them is discrimination? Always give them the job? Always approve their loans? Always approve their applications? Even when a better candidate is available?

If that's what you're suggesting, it's unreasonable. And if that's not what you're suggesting, it seems like you're complaining for the sake of it.aussieinjapan. I wish you didn't have your disability. 

Perhaps then, you'd have a better capacity to think about this issue objectively, instead of looking at it from your subjective perspective.I agree. But what you assume and what can be proven are two different things.

Funny enough, your post is one of the few replies I'd consider reasonable. At least you've stuck to a rational point, instead of flipping out and making personal attacks.Saddam was a ruthless dictator. The West invade Iraq to depose him and end his threat. They succeeded.

Now Islamic militants, unaffiliated with Saddam, are trying to overcome Iraq. So are you supporting military assistance? Or would you prefer to let ISIS take control? Because at the moment, all your post seems to be is a whinge.So you're privy to the inner chambers of Government, huh? I doubt it. 

How about sticking to what you know? The West deposed Saddam and searched the country for weapons of mass destruction. By all accounts, they succeeded. So it's fair to say these were the motives.I'll stick to the information publicly available, not your interpretations of it.

The Americans wanted to depose Saddam. They did it. They wanted to search Iraq for WMDs. They did so. They wanted to create a democracy in Iraq. It was created.

Seems like the only issue here is your objections to removing Saddam and your objections to western military actions. Care to explain why you're so insistent on undermining us for the sake of our enemies?Yank. The government has given their reasons for invading Iraq. You disagree with them? That's your right. 

It doesn't matter that the WMDs weren't found. Their existence was a certainty. The only issue is whether they had been hidden, sold or demolished. America was perfectly entitled to enter Iraq and check for themselves.

The civil war in Iraq wasn't caused by the loss of Saddam. It was caused because ISIS was defeated in Syria and driven into Iraq. Saddam didn't even last a week against American forces. What makes you think he'd do any better against ISIS?
You have a nice opinion, Eric.

But America disagreed with your conclusions. And in the absence of any prosecution, your opinion seems a bit irrelevant.No, Eric.

You're not citing the law. You're just citing your unqualified conclusions on what you think the law means. 

Wars do not require the permission of the security council. And unless you have a legal authority to the contrary, I'm not even going to waste the effort of debating it with you.We have a golden opportunity to save Iraq by giving them to Iran.

I'd suggest we not. Another way should be found.My guess?

The Parliament would continue to make decisions you disapprove of. And you would continue to believe they were part of some  corporate conspiracy involving cancer.Your post makes no sense. People already have the capacity to vote for independents and are doing so in record numbers. 

Or perhaps you're using some strange definition for "independent", in which case you should elaborate further. 

Are you suggesting that political donations be banned? Or that political parties be abolished? I think most people would suggest that this restricts democracy, since it's designed to stop interest groups from participating in the democratic process simply because you don't agree with their priorities.Rabbithole. Your conspiracy theory ignores three critical points:

1. You don't need to be rich to run for public office;
2. People vote how they please; and 
3. Elections don't always go to the party who spent the most money.I'd disagree with the conscience part.

Senators are appointed to represent their electorate. Not to vote according to their personal whims.If senators and MPs are voting based on their conscience, they are voting purely according to personal whim.

How does this represent their electorate in the slightest? If anything, it's worse than having them vote according to party lines. At least the party lines are advertised prior to the election.Agreed.

The Labor party becomes more fractured with every year. The public should give them a few more terms in Government and let the self-destruction run it's course.The Coalition has already shown it's capacity to compromise. So has Labor, which compromised almost every value it had for the sake of keeping power.

I'd like to see the Greens do the same. Do you honestly think they have the capacity?"If Australia can demonstrate that a first-world economy can actually function and prosper at or beyond zero emissions then we've provided an example and a method which other nations can follow."

If the other nations don't follow it, global warming will happen anyway. In which case, our society is going to be very angry about  undermining our way of life for a solution that didn't work. The greens will most likely bear the brunt of this anger.Andrew.

1. This is an assumption. The world has been warmer in the past and life thrived. When climate activists assume that doomsday is coming, it just makes their arguments less credible.

2. Climate activists are kicking the political football as much as anyone else. You don't want politicisation to end. You just want your opponents to concede the game.Moral lessons for footballers:

1. It's better to be a bad winner than a good loser.
2. Being good at football counts as public service.
3. If you sucker punch someone, it's rude to contest the two-game ban.
4. The laws of society don't apply on the field....
5. ......or the bedroom, provided she's over 16.
6. What happens in sports stays out of the courts.
7. If a teammate is caught taking drugs, get rid of them.
8. If the team is caught taking drugs, get rid of ASADA.
9. Players are like horses: they run or they're finished.
10. Football players are Australian royalty - act like it.The study isn't an indicator of Facebook's emotional power over viewers. 

It's actually an indicator of the extent to which viewers emotionally manipulate themselves in response to external data. And that, in itself, is a far more serious concern.People choose how they respond to stimulus.

It is a mistake to say that Facebook has the power to manipulate emotions. It shifts responsibility away from the individual.That's unfair, damage.

The last two terms have proven that Labor will stand for anything and everything, depending on which voters they're trying to bribe.Lawyers are like plumbers. 

They spend the day cleaning up your mess. You hate having to call them for help. You hate trusting them. And when the problem is solved, you never want to see them again.Actually, he's calling out the double standards of those in power. Hypocrisy is a different thing entirely.

It was really the author's own fault. It's irrelevant that North Korea has nuclear weapons or the world's largest army and it was a mistake for Kirby to mention it. 

The author should have focused on the relevant point: North Korea is a dictatorship which represses it's own people and poses a military threat to it's neighbours. It's people shouldn't tolerate the repression. The neighbours shouldn't tolerate the threat. The international community shouldn't tolerate the dictatorship.An excellent point which begs the question:

Who is he trying to help? And why?I'm sure he was. And so was I.

Mandas is trying to argue that America is just as bad. What's the point of his comment? Is he protecting the North Korean regime? Is he trying to undermine the West's resolve to deal with North Korea? Is he trying to use the opportunity to shame America so it lifts it's game?

It's fair to wonder who he's trying to help - since it clearly isn't the North Koreans.North Korea is safe for one reason: China provides military, economic and political protection. It has nothing to do with oil. 

China feels entitled to defend North Korea for two reasons:

1. It doesn't want western military forces on the Chinese border; and
2. North Korea isn't doing anything to it's people that China hasn't already done to their own people. So China needs to defend North Korea's decisions as strongly as they'd defend their own.China is a military ally of North Korea. They block action against North Korea in the security council. They provide aid to North Korea to protect them from sanctions.

It's not time for China to step up and solve the problem. It's time for China to step away and stop contributing to it.China's hands are tied for ideological reasons.

No matter what North Korea might do today, China has done something similar to their own people in the past. And even today, they remain very similar.

This is why China can't allow any action against North Korea. Because any action taken against North Korea can also be taken as a criticism of China and it's past decisions.If a person isn't mentally capable to stand trial, they can't be held accountable for their actions. So why should they be permitted to be free in society where their actions have consequences? 

If a person doesn't have the capacity to be responsible for their actions, they should be in the legal custody of someone who can.
Dman.

People are afraid that if we open the borders, our population will be bloated by unproductive and poor immigrants. They're afraid that this will lead to crime, poverty and the collapse of government welfare.

When you point to America and India and claim we should follow their example, you're just proving that their fears are well founded.Peter. If you're going to argue that we should let people through our borders, it's fair for people to ask you where the line should be drawn. It's called long-term planning.

The real question is: Why don't you want to answer? And why do you believe that the answer is irrelevant? I believe that the reason you don't answer the question is because you: 

a) want open borders but don't want to admit it; or
b) you don't want to think that far ahead.

I'm not sure which possibility is more alarming.Contract? 

No. It's a promise.  And like all promises, our obligation ends when we decide it will end.

Most of the refugees who arrive here don't come from nations we invaded. And even if we do invade a nation, it doesn't follow that we're obliged to take their refugees. 

Doesn't it seem strange to you that an invaded people would come to their conquerors for refuge? You'd think they would flee in the other direction......unless they trust us more than their own people.It makes perfect sense. In order for a person to qualify as a refugee, they need to show that they have a real risk of being persecuted. They need to meet this burden of proof on the balance of probabilities. 

If they have less than a 50% chance of actually being persecuted, it means that on the balance of probabilities persecution isn't going to occur. And so, they shouldn't qualify for asylum.

Of course, this is likely to stun asylum advocates. For a decade, our system operated on the "take their word for it and wave them through" principle. The fact that refugees will actually need to PROVE their claims will represent a gigantic shift in our border policies - one that asylum advocates are unlikely to welcome."I think you'll find the burden of proof is on the Australian govt to show that they aren't refugees."

I think you'll find that you're wrong.

When a person claims they are a refugee, they are claiming to have certain legal rights. The person who asserts a legal right is the one who must prove that the right exists. 

You wouldn't fly on a plane unless you were certain of a safe arrival. So why would you assume a person is a genuine refugee unless you're certain that they will actually be persecuted?The romans had a pithy saying - He who asserts must prove.

It's the basis of the modern legal system. And that is why a refugee must prove their claims to our satisfaction, instead of the other way around.I'm not sure if you're being sarcastic or not.

Plenty of nations haven't signed the refugee convention and refuse to take refugees. If we become a political exile, we'll have plenty of company.Imagine you're sitting in a life raft.

A man stands up and proposes that you should let the ocean into the boat. He says it's the moral thing to do and it's not fair for you to sit in a boat while the ocean suffers outside.

Listening to him would sink the boat. So ignoring the man's ideas is wise. And if the man tries to let the ocean in by himself, stopping him becomes a matter of self defence.If a person is in danger, you have no legal obligation to help them to your own detriment.

Your moral obligations depends on perspective. If your boat is already full and another passenger will risk sinking it, the morality of letting him drown is a matter of opinion.The law operates on the maxim "he who asserts must prove".

If a person asserts that they are a refugee to which obligations are owed, they are the ones who need to prove it.

This isn't an issue about "left-wing vs. right-wing". There are right-wing Catholics who want the borders open, so they can sink their teeth into uneducated potential converts. There are left-wing socialists who want the borders shut, because they know taking too many poor migrants will bring an end to the Australian welfare state.

This issue is about emotion vs. long term perspective.The boat people are the ones who take the first step when they try to enter our borders.

The onus is on them to prove they have a legal right to enter the country, not for us to prove that they don't.  It might be difficult for a boat person to prove their claims with actual evidence, but this is their burden.It's easy.

Imagine that an Iranian claims they are at risk of persecution in Iran because they are Sunni.

Consider how many Sunnis in Iran have actually been persecuted based on evidence. Divide this number by the total number of Sunnis living in Iran. The result is their statistical likelihood of being persecuted.

Of course, it would be up to the Iranian to do all this. The courts don't have to do an applicant's work for them.No nation has open borders. No nation lets people in simply because they claim to be a refugee. Other nations demand refugees to prove their claim. Why should our country treat them differently?

And yet, you condemn Australia for doing the exact same thing which other nations do. If you weren't Australian, I'd have you pegged as a racist.I wouldn't hold my breath either.

The mainstream parties are quite moderate. The fact that people are slowly flowing to the Greens and the PUP seems to indicate that our population is becoming more partisan.The talk was blocked because of fear that the arguments supporting honour killing would be presented. 

What Badar personally believes is irrelevant. He might have been presenting the arguments for the purpose of debunking them. But if he did a bad job, he'd do more harm than good.

I would suggest that if we want to stop honour killings, we should focus on education and prosecution. Not hoping that potential killer are willing to be swayed by rational debate.If our society has decided that honour killing is wrong, why do we need to understand the motives of those who commit it?

Surely, our goal would be to simply educate people on it's wrongness and punish those who carry it out. To hold a debate on it would imply it has a degree of validity.Just once, I'd like to see the word "hypocrisy" used correctly on this forum.

If a thief believes "I do not steal" they are a hypocrite. If a thief believes "stealing is wrong" they're not a hypocrite - they just have double standards.The most dangerous ideas are the ones you choose to act on. The most harmless ideas are the ones you never have.

Our nation has formed the view that honour killings are morally unacceptable and socially undesirable. So what purpose does further debate serve, except to spread the idea and present it a potentially valid point of view?The most dangerous idea is that ethics and morality trump law. 

Your actions should be based on what society chooses to allow. The moment you decide that your personal ethics overrule the law, society becomes beholden to your judgement (or lack thereof).The law comes from the consensus of society, at least in democratic ones.In the absence of the law, how would you prefer to define rightness of action? Personal opinion?

The law should define what is right as agreed by social consensus. As the consensus of society changes, the laws change with them. 

When we sneer at the "immoral" laws of the past, we do so from the perspectives of our personal morality. I'm sure that our descendants will sneer at our laws in a similar way. Probably from a moral perspective we never considered, or one that we'd find offensive.The Nuremberg defence refers to the culpability of subordinates, not the culpability of people who take actions which are authorised by law.The Nuremberg defence didn't fail because the soldiers acted immorally. The defence failed because the soldiers broke international laws against atrocity.

If anything, this reinforces my point that law trumps morality.And that is the issue. You've decided that when your personal views clash with society, you'll dismiss society and it's laws.

This leaves society in the position where it's beholden to your whims and vulnerable to your actions, merely because you feel entitled to do as you please. 

If you were infallible, society might be willing to allow you such freedom. But you're not and it won't. So when you are present in society, you're subject to society's laws. And these laws will be enforced if you break them.Complying with the law is not the same as accepting it. If it were, we'd have the exact same laws we had during the dark ages. 

Society doesn't have an issue with changing laws as time goes by. Society's issue is with people who believe they are subject to no laws, except the ones they find convenient.It makes sense.

If the Greens wanted to save the environment, sabotaging our economy is the most efficient way of doing it. When economic growth falls, environmental activists rejoice.I find it extraordinary that the journalism community isn't publicly advocating for the crime to be excused, given that they do so for every other wrong committed by the industry.Justice is for those with the best evidence. 

The law doesn't hinge on what you do, but whether it can be proven that you did it.It would be fairer to say that Government's policy favours the useful and disadvantages the useless.

But given that our system provides people with government welfare, state housing and free services, this disadvantage is quite small when compared to other countries.Climate science is starting to create models. But they are yet to produce a theory with the mathematical accuracy necessary to justify the amount of money which activists demand to be spent. 

Furthermore, there is no guarantee that Australia's cutting of emissions will lead to any significant impact on climate change or contribute to any meaningful solution. It depends on the actions of big polluters.

As a result, the climate activists are primarily driven by politics and symbolism. If they have the public on their side, the science behind the issue becomes moot.Per capita, we are the highest carbon emitters on Earth.  But unfortunately, per-capita based solutions will not stop climate change. 

And unless climate change is tackled sufficiently, the money we spend is a gamble and not an insurance policy.The general public are understandably angry with budget cuts. But they could still prefer this anger, when compared to the fear  they felt over Labor's unrealistic estimates and growing debt.

My guess is that Labor will only be returned to power when:
1. The Liberals have brought the budget back into stability; and
2. The Labor party has promised not to send the country back into the red.

The public's difficulty is finding a time where they can punish the Liberals for daring to be responsible, but without compromising the budget or rewarding Labor.The long game favours the Government.

To protect the forest, the activists need to succeed countless times. To cut the forest down, the Government only needs to succeed once.Perhaps the news industry could fund their own private army to protect journalists? They could double as ground crew, telling the combatants when they need to keep still for the photographer. 

Or perhaps they could not go into warzones? Or accept that warzones are dangerous? Mad as it sounds.Dubious. The President of Ukraine was installed by a public uprising. His appointment was later ratified by a democratic election in which all of Ukraine was invited to participate.

Russia is currently opposed to democratic values, as proven by it's recent annexation of Ukrainian territory. Russia is swiftly becoming as right-wing and nationalist as Germany was prior to 1935. Frankly, the world wouldn't be surprised if Russia started outlawing other languages and rounding up same-sex couples.

There is no irony here. You're just seeing black and calling it white."I'm not entirely convinced that this conflict is any of our business."

The entire structure of international geopolitics is based on one concept: National borders are fixed and annexation is illegal.

If Russia is no longer content to follow this rule and wishes to expand their borders, every nation is now potentially at risk of Russia's ambitions. The conflict has become a global concern and Russia has become a global threat.Khrushchev.

So what if a missile shield is put in Europe? It could block 90% of Russian missiles and the world would be equally doomed. Nobody wins a nuclear war.

Fact 1: NATO is not a conventional threat to Russia. But Russia is a clear conventional threat to Europe. They posed this threat for the entire cold war and they still pose it today.

Fact 2: Russia isn't afraid of NATO. They're just afraid that once a nation becomes part of NATO, it is no longer vulnerable to Russian annexation and control."According to a Levada Center poll this month Putin's approval rating climbed again to 87%"

Amazing. 

He has the highest public approval rating since Hitler. That's right-wing nationalism for you.Alpo. If you believe that Russia will be allowed to annex and invade other nation's territory without any consequence, you are the naive one.

Russia spent most of the last century annexing their neighbours doing exactly what they were doing now. In return, they were embargoed by the free world until they collapsed - even though it took half a century.

If Russia is going to return to soviet-style villainy and become an enemy of the western world, they should be treated accordingly. That is the new geopolitical landscape.Artful dodger. If you want to become a Russian citizen, there is nothing stopping you. Hop on a plane, show up in Moscow, make your application and wave their flag.

What you can't do, however, is stay in your Australian house and tell everyone the land is now Russian territory. You can go to Russia - you can't bring Russia here.The author makes a good point, but I can't help but think his effort is misplaced. Nations usually make a legal case prior to taking overt military action. This time won't be any different. 

Military intervention in Iraq, Libya and Afghanistan never caused any legal backlash for the West, so it's hard to imagine that intervention against ISIL would suddenly be problematic. Especially when ISIL has done it's best to provoke every country in the region and alienate every country outside it.I suspect that Western involvement will be limited to Iraq.

Syria has the capacity to deal with the militants on it's own territory. And if not, I doubt the West will shed many tears.Abbott's comment was a simple loyalty test, John.

He asked for everyone to be part of "Team Australia". So logically, that means the individual is the one who decides whether they're part of the team or not. 

You'd imagine that most people would answer "sure, I'm part of Australia's team. Why wouldn't I be?". But if their natural response is offence, confusion or "No" then it would seem to indicate an issue."He doenst however have the right to act or implement those views illegally or to the detriment of another persons civil rights."

And he hasn't. 

If I show up to your coffee store and apply for a job, my civil rights don't extend to compelling you to employ me. If you don't want to give me the job for whatever reason you decide appropriate, that's my bad luck. 

What is the alternative? For me to go to the authorities and have you forced to give me gainful employment? Such an outcome would violate the owner's civil rights and make the employment contract void.Of course.

Furthermore, an employer can decide to employ or not employ a person. They have freedom of choice and they can base their decision on whatever factor they want - whether it be skill, race, skin colour, gender, family connections or good looks.

The issue is that the owner directly expressed his racism to the applicant, thus causing offence. If the owner had kept his opinions to himself, this wouldn't even be news.
Bazil and Azure.

All you've done is reinforce my point - employers are free to employ as they please. They're just not allowed to do so in a way which racially offends the applicant.

In the absence of blatant racism, an employers decision is legal whether it is actually racist or not. So clearly the law is only designed to stop blatant racism - and even then, only when the applicant is personally offended and takes legal action.

It may also interest you to know that anti-discrimination laws don't apply to employment for private households - once again showing that not all discrimination is unacceptable to law.It takes me back, but verbal bullying was pretty widespread between boys as well.

Once the growth spurts hit, bullies had to worry about physical retaliation from their victims. Verbal bullying was a safer option and provided less risk.The issue is that the author can't grasp the implications of his own reasoning.

He recognises that evil stems from human flaws. He recognises that theism is subject to the same flaws. He recognises that removing religion would not solve anything, since human flaws would remain. He recognises that humanity is "the common denominator" behind all the problems arising from evil and theism.

And yet, he can't make the final leap in deduction: that theism and evil are both products of humanity.GRF. The problem is that whether it tries complicated arguments or simple ones, theism can't explain the problem of evil.

You would argue that "God is unable" to intervene in human affairs. If we assume you're correct, it follows that your "deity" isn't omnipotent or relevant to the physical universe. Or he choses not to intervene when he could, in which case he's malicious or cruel.

Christian dogma would argue that "god" is the source of all things, meaning he would also be the true source of choice and the evils which results from decision. In which case humans are innocent and their deity is guilty, which makes spiritual punishment for sins illogical.

Yet all these unanswerable questions can be solved by a simple premise - God does not exist. From there, we conclude that humans are the source of all choice and hence, the source of all "good" and "evil". The problem of evil is solved, without any need to resort to the supernatural.

Both you and the author are willing to realise that evil is a social construct which stems from human flaws and behaviour. But you can't accept that religion is also a human construct. The moment logic and theism conflict, you choose theism.Atheism provides no special knowledge or understanding. It is merely a recognition that theism is a philosophical dead-end. 

Humans are driven by curiosity and the desire to understand the universe. Theism is contrary to this, since it involves giving up the search for knowledge and saying "goddidit" whenever the universe confuses you.Neil. The majority of atheists won't join you in Iraq. Neither will most theists for that matter.

So your post seems to lack a point, except to imply that you only do good things because of spiritual bribery. Probably not the point you were hoping to make.

Labor had a simple strategy: "Throw tons of money at people - and make sure the poor and middle class see you doing it."

It doesn't matter if policy is sustainable, effective or planned. If you can get money in people's hands, they'll think you're doing a good job even as the economy slumps.

The proviso is that as people grab their free cash, a little part of their brain reminds them that there's no such thing as a magic pudding. People quietly wonder where the money came from and how it will all be paid for. The "free money" tactic only works as long as you can manage the fear and keep people calm.

At first, Labor had the surplus and spending was hidden. When that was gone, they had to make "optimistic" predictions about revenue. Once those predictions turned out wrong and the accounts turned red, they started creating new taxes hoping to inflate revenue and make the accounts look better.

Once that point was reached, people's brains were firing off like the fourth of July. When Labor started going on television dismissing all criticism, they put the nails in their own coffin.The West has an excellent record in Middle East intervention. Dictatorships overthrown. Democracies established. Invasions repelled. Chemical weapons neutralised and vulnerable groups protected.

The people with the terrible record in Middle East intervention are groups like ISIL, who resort to indiscriminate slaughter and terrorism the moment they don't get their way. If we are afraid of what ISIL might do to civilians if we get involved, it's a sign that ISIL is a problem worthy of attention.The West isn't the one slaughtering civilians, blowing up car bombs in markets or supporting Islamic terrorism.

Your issue is actually with the conduct of groups like ISIL and similar terror cells. But since you know these groups don't give a fig for your complaints, all you can do is blame the West.Your assessment is simplistic.

The Americans trained the muhadijin, not the Taliban. The West supported  several anti-assad groups, but this didn't include ISIL which has always been openly hostile to Western interests. The situation in Libya has occurred because several Islamic groups feel entitled to control Libya, even though they lost the election by a landslide.

In each situation you mention, Western intervention has helped to resolve an issue while intervention by the West's enemies has made the situation worse. It appears you conflate one with the other, or you believe that the other groups intervening in these conflicts would stop if the West wasn't involved.The Americans supported and organised the Muhadijin. Pakistani elements formed and supported the Taliban.

Once the Soviets had been driven out, the Muhadijin formed the Afghani Government. The Taliban turned on them and forced them out of Kabul. The remnants of the government formed the Northern Alliance, who fought a civil war for years until western intervention returned them to power.

So as you can see, it was not Western intervention which threw up unexpected consequences. The unexpected consequences arose from the intervention of the West's enemies. It is simplistic to think that when the West is involved, nobody else is.I think you need a history book, Pom.

Islam had conquered the middle east, north Africa, Turkey and a third of Europe long before the Christians came up with the idea of crusades. 

It's fair to say that the jihads of Islamic nations were not only the cause of the crusades, but the inspiration for them.The government didn't double the debt.

Labor swept half the debt under the rug. All the government has done is lift the rug and reveal the true state of things.America has countless white Americans living in poverty. 

They don't start up a riot every time a white person is shot by police, or when the shooter happens to be African American.I'd say it's more interesting how you view rioters and looters as "victims" who shouldn't be blamed for their actions.I doubt the BBC would permanently kill off their most successful franchise. It would be like Disney killing off Mickey Mouse.Jade. The fact that a person is following you on a public street is not a reason to attack them - especially when the person lives on that very street.

If your 17 year old boy goes around attacking people for following him, I would hope he ends up jailed. Society has no need for people like that."Imagine if he'd been white. Would the mainstream media have even reported it?"

You leave out even more questions. If he'd been white, would the African American community care? Would they be rioting or protesting over it? 

Racial tension always stems from the perceptions of the "oppressed", not the actions of the "oppressor". If a racial group is angry about perceived injustice, no fact or investigation is going to solve this anger.There is no such thing as "overkill" with firearms.

If you're resorting to a gun, it means you're resorting to lethal force. It seems logical that you keep shooting until the target is down, whether it takes one bullet or six.

If an officer shoots a gun and they're *not* using the level of bullets needed to kill the target, it's a sign the officer shouldn't be firing the gun in the first place. The question here is whether lethal force was justified.Baz. It's difficult to hit a moving target with a pistol at thirty feet. Let alone hit one in the head. 

You suggest the police officer not only succeeded, but managed to do it twice. Was he an olympic marksman? I suspect your details are faulty.
"A militarized police is effectively an occupation, foreign, too, insofar as it bears little demographic resemblence to the area residents."

The police have the right to defend themselves, arrest criminals and maintain order. Civilians don't have a right to loot, riot or create disorder.

So you've actually got it the wrong way around. The police are not effectively an occupation. Rather, the rioting civilians are effectively an insurgency.Roman saying - It also concerns you when your neighbour's house burns.

If ISIL continues to succeed, it will grow and dominate the area. Their threat to us will only grow - why not deal with them now instead of later?Graazt.

Given what China and Russia do to people inside their own borders, the last thing we want is to encourage them to intervene in other countries.Care to mention what those means might involve, Dove?

Let's imagine that any Australian police sent into the rocket-firing suburbs get ambushed, killed or kidnapped by people with military grade weapons. 

What would Australia do then? Capitulate? Send more police?Trent.

The rockets that Hamas fires are indiscriminate. They are illegal, irrespective of whether they're launched from the middle of Gaza City or from the countryside.

The fact these rockets are launched from Gaza City just doubles the criminality. If Hamas wanted to fight away from civilian areas, they just need to pick a direction and walk for an hour.Israel isn't delaying the peace process.

If the Palestinians accepted Israeli terms, there would be peace tomorrow. 

If Israel accepted Palestinian terms, there's just be another war in six months - because concessions only encourage the Palestinians to commit more violence.Propaganda forms a critical part of war.

ISIL has a support base because it can portray a clear symbol of what they're fighting against. They portray innocents as devil worshippers worthy of death. They portray governments as American puppets. They portray America as the eternal enemy of Islam.

The West can only fight ISIL if they are able to portray a clear symbol of what they're fighting. If they fail to do this, Western communities won't see the point of getting involved. Social apathy leads to political apathy, which in turn prevents military intervention.

Propaganda is about confrontation. The West is putting ISIL on the front pages, because it means the public are shown what ISIL represents. The fear and discomfort caused by these images prevent the public from resorting to their apathy - they realise that their inaction also has consequences.

Given the author's publishing history, I suspect he wishes to prevent American intervention. If so, this might place his article in a new light. Is he afraid of giving the terrorists what they want? Or is he more afraid that if ISIL's beheadings reach the front page, intervention becomes more likely?It just raises too many questions. In the end, commercial surrogacy is just a form of human slavery. It treats children as commodities to be born, sold and bargained for. 

But most people believe having children is a human right rather than a biological privilege. So most nations are willing to look the other way. The only thing governments are really worried about is hearing ugly details, since this compels them to get involved in things they'd rather ignore. 

The only reason this topic is even being debated is because the surrogate of Gammy decided to make noise when the arrangement turned sour. I'm sure thousands are in a similar position. The only difference is that those women stayed quiet and were swept under the rug.Mitor. You seem to misunderstand what a commercial surrogacy agreement represents.

You're not renting a womb. You're buying a baby. If a surrogate decides to bring the baby to term but doesn't surrender the child after it's born, the child is the subject of the dispute - not her womb.

Treating babies as a commodity is something which breaches the fundamental paradigm from which all human rights is derived. That perspective isn't pious, it's humanist.A state doesn't stop being democratic merely because it occupies another hostile state's territory.

Israel occupies the territory because it was confiscated from hostile parties during a war. In normal cases, an occupation continues until a peace agreement is reached or the occupied territory ceases to be hostile.The reason the USA failed in Iraq is for a simple reason: 

They got tired of killing Iraqis before the Iraqis tired of killing each other.
"Because they didn't understand what success looked like."

I'd say it's their critics who failed to understand what success looked like.

What would success involve? Indefinite occupation? Democratic Iraq? A world in which militant organisations like ISIL never spring up? A world in which no lunatic can detonate a bomb in a marketplace? Or perhaps success was measured in how much Iraqi oil could be cheaply exported to America?

Maybe I'll correct my post. America lost the war for a simple reason: It waged the war, but it allowed it's critics to set the goal posts. When your critics decide what constitutes success, failure is the only possible outcome.Percy. The Gaza conflict involved 2000 palestinians dying in the middle of a war zone because their own fighters insist on hiding next to them.

The holocaust involved millions of people being systematically murdered in camps which were miles away from any warzone. There is no comparison to Gaza.

If you'll check, you'll see that it's the pro-Palestinian supporters who can't help but talk about the holocaust. Much like you were the first one who mentioned it in this forum.It's a sad indictment on socialism, Tator.

The West can kill a thousand people with air strikes. The fascists can kill a million people with death camps. 

But socialists can kill a hundred million people with incompetence....and they're not even trying.This article assumes that Palmer is genuinely open to negotiation.

If you take the premise that Palmer only went into politics to pursue a vendetta against the Liberals, his unpredictable behaviour makes a lot more sense.In the event of a nuclear war, America would say "we lost 60% of our people".  The Chinese wouldn't say anything at all - America has enough missiles pointed at China to sterilize the entire subcontinent of life.

Conventionally, I don't think China has the capacity to win an offensive war. The PLA is too busy occupying China. Every soldier they send over the border is one less soldier to keep the dictatorship in charge.@crow.

There was nothing wrong with the sentence he received. The issue is that he was on the street in the first place, having been released in spite of a long history of predatory offences.Mitor. Judges are appointed to apply the law. 

There is no requirement that judges have any discretion at all. Our society decided that maximum sentence limits were a good idea and the system benefited. Minimum sentences are no different and just work from the other end.

The matters you raise are addressable by other means. Abuse and provocation are not a defence to murder. Neither is anger. Mental illness either disqualifies you from guilt entirely or it's not relevant.The deaths which result from public brawls are quite prominent in the media. 

A reasonable person would be aware by now that punching someone could lead to death or grievous injury. While death from a single punch is not statistically likely, it's still a reasonable possibility.  

In that context, the act of punching someone can constitute a reckless disregard for human life. In which case, the intent needed for murder could be the intent to punch - not the intent to kill.I'm afraid you can't win, Paul.

Do minimum sentences deter crime? If so, it is a good thing. If not, then we must conclude that criminals won't be deterred from committing crimes, so they might as well be incarcerated.Your perspective is flawed, Paul, because you assume deterrence is the only issue.

Mandatory sentences have two purposes. First, they deter people from committing crimes. Second, they lock offenders away to prevent them harming society further. 

If you believe the first purpose doesn't work, it just makes the second purpose more important.  Every criminal locked in a cell is one less criminal to reoffend on the street.If they're appealing the mandatory jail term, they won't have much luck."Discretionary sentencing is a fail-safe mechanism to prevent laws conceived in the abstract from becoming absurdities in practice."

It is difficult to see how the mandatory jailing of a person for manslaughter could be considered absurd.  

By contrast, the discretion of judges has frequently resulted in sentences which caused outrage or were subsequently overturned by appeal. If judicial discretion isn't used in line with community expectations, changing the laws are the only option.Self-defence is a complicated matter. It doesn't necessarily revolve around who attacked first with what. 

If you believe that an attack is imminent, you don't need to wait for the other party to take the first swing. And if you believe an attacker will beat you senseless in a fair fight, you don't need to fight fairly.

Of course, taking the first swing will put you at a disadvantage in the courtroom when you're asked to explain your actions. But most would agree that a trial is preferable to a hospital ward or a funeral."What about an intentional high tackle in football?"

Professional football is a murky area with the industry having a status similar to customary indigenous law. Unless a player shot another player on the field, I doubt the police would ever get involved (and even then, it would seem very unusual).

"All deaths from reckless and aggressive acts, what's the difference if not the mitigating circumstances?"

I'd argue that your sentence should depend on what you did, not the life you've led.

"Half the country thinks China is going to invade and the other half is envious of their justice system."

That's unfair. I'm sure plenty of socialists fit both categories.

"After a horror budget sell, could the Coalition be at risk of losing its reputation as the better economic managers?"

Given that the Senate cross-benchers are the ones preventing the budget from being passed, I'd suggest that their reputations are the ones at risk. Pass or fail, they'll get the blame for the outcome."making high earners pay for the privilege of living in a stable, peaceful, productive and well organised society"

Our stable, peaceful, productive and well organised society is a result of high earners. Take away the mining moguls, the corporations and the banks - Australia's economy would be on par with eastern Europe.

If you're going to argue that the rich need to pay for living in the country, I'd suggest a flat rate to ensure that the poor pay for their own privileges. After all, being born into the Australian welfare system is one of the greatest economic privileges on the planet.Alpo. You admit that plenty of rich people live in the third world. You also admit that Australia's quality of life is based on our income redistribution system.

This indicates that you don't need a stable and peaceful nation to be rich - but you need rich people to have a stable and peaceful nation. It seems the rich create the privilege of the first world and the poor enjoy it.

As for your other point? Welfare is socially unsustainable by nature. India and China are already at that point. As America's population continues to grow, they'll reach that point too. At some future point, Australia will need to follow. 

Welfare is a luxury which struggles against a stark truth - money is finite, but population growth is exponential.Most socialists are hypocrites. It doesn't follow that most hypocrites are socialists.If only the hostile senate would stop threatening to block the budget.

Makes sense that Labor would rack up debt then block any attempt to manage it. They might not be running the ship, but they're still just as capable of sinking it.If renewable energy is so efficient and profitable, why worry? It would simply be a case of waiting until people realise how much money can be made.

Or if renewable energy is neither efficient nor profitable, it is simply a matter of waiting until it is.

Kcdl. You assume that it must be done sooner and not later. You also assume that action in Australia will have any meaningful effect on global climate change.

Fossil fuels will eventually become scarce, which will create a need for alternative sources of energy. Why force investment in something unprofitable, when the market will eventually do it anyway and make the industry profitable in the process?"We use and produce the highest level of GHGs per capita on the planet."

Quite right. But climate change is caused by gross emissions, not per capita emissions. 

We could double our population tomorrow. Our per capita emissions would improve overnight, but climate change would remain exactly the same. So clearly, per capita is a distraction from true issues. 
Illness implies some kind of imperfection. Society is steaming along quite fine. If society can continue but you cannot, then the illness lies in yourself. That's why our mental health service exists to help individuals instead of lecturing society.  

You also seem to be confused about the idea of emergence services. It means "rapid response to the scene and render assistance" not "sit around and try to call the victim on their phone".

The next time you need help, would you want the emergency services to sit back and try to ring you on the phone rather than bothering to make the trip to your house?

When people have bad opinions, the most costly learning experience for them is to have those opinions acted upon.

Helpful tip: don't make baseless accusations about other people on forums. There's no advantage to it. If your accusation is right, you'll never know. If your accusation is false, you've proven to the other person that you're an idiot.You believe that the emergency officers deserved what happened to them? That being burned in a fire for trying to save a life was karma or justice?

Please continue to post. You're doing more to undermine your own credibility than I could hope to achieve.

For the record, I don't have foxtel. So when you accuse me, you're just telling a joke at your own expense."Yet throughout the media coverage of his case, he was portrayed as someone who acted selfishly and recklessly. He was not portrayed as someone who was seriously ill."

A mentally ill person can still be selfish and reckless. And it goes without saying that a suicidal person is seriously ill, since suicide is an irrational act.Let's see:

1. Our health system views suicide as a sign of irrationality. In extreme cases, it will result in a person being declared mentally incompetent and made a ward of the state.

2. Our emergency services are designed to respond to suicide attempts in an attempt to prevent them and literally rescue the person from their own actions.

3. Our social support services work on the presumption that suicide should be prevented and that suicidal urges are an indication that a person may need psychological or medical help.

And that's only the start. If anything, I'd be hard pressed to find evidence which doesn't support my claim. What do you have to support yours?
Not according to the law, social norms or any medical ethical code you could care to name.When guilt rests on a technicality, the case should be tested on the available evidence.

If the case fails, the Parliament can decide whether it should be accepted - or whether the law should be changed to ensure that the next conviction will succeed.Our medical, psychological, social and emergency services all work on the premise that suicide is irrational and should be prevented whenever possible. They hold this premise due to the expectations of society, who have traditionally held the same view. 

My assumption is strongly supported. Your disagreement is the knee-jerk response here.No man is an island. If Firth had succeeded, his mother would have experienced loss. His friends would have felt like they failed to save a life. The authorities would have gone through the trauma of having to clean up after him. 

By what right should he inflict pain on all those people for the sake of himself? Why shouldn't it be considered selfish?

There was nothing stopping Mr Firth from trying again the day after he was rescued. But he's still here today to sit in court - it seems that not even Mr Firth agrees with the decision he made on that day. Just a pity that good people had to be maimed for it."How would Dick Cheney/Halliburton have be treated if he was in China and engaged in war that made him millions richer?"

The exact same thing would have happened. But Cheney would have been acting under the Chinese government's direct orders and Halliburton would have been state owned.

"How would that group of plotters that made the case for the invasion of Iraq have been treated when it was discovered that they lied about the reasons?"

The same thing would happen. But the Chinese government would say that the plotter's reasons were fact, even in the face of contradicting evidence. Anyone who claimed otherwise would be arrested for subversion or worse. Whistle-blowers don't sleep soundly in China.

Face it, Moka. Whatever trumped up accusations you level at the West, the Chinese government has proven that they can do the same and worse besides.Let's take score. The moment that the plane was shot down:

1. Russia tried to use the crash as justification for an immediate ceasefire, at a time when the rebels were rapidly losing ground to the Ukrainian army.

2. Russian media spun the crash as a Fascist/West conspiracy against Russia. The Russian people had just watched their soldiers annex Crimea to international condemnation. The "conspiracy" gave them a reason to view Russia as a victim instead of an aggressor.

3. No matter what evidence might prove Russia's guilt, they will deny it and escape punishment. Thus, shooting down the plane deliberately would pose no risk whatsoever.

The shooting down of the airline was quite profitable to Russia. They gained the most and lost nothing. So while an accidental shooting was more likely, a deliberate shooting would still make sense."If the Russians wanted to wipe out Australia with nuclear weapons they could it from thousands of kilometres away."

They could. But the missiles would be tracked. Half the world would assume the missiles were heading their way and Russia would be a radioactive cinder within fifteen minutes.

If Russia wished to make a nuclear attack without consequence, they'd use submarines. Then they'd furiously deny that the submarines were theirs. 

If Russia can march soldiers into Ukraine while swearing they're not involved, they can do the same for a nuclear missile which originated from their naval group. Judging from the posts on the Drum, half the posters would believe them too.Most likely, they'd claim the whole thing was a CIA plot to make Russia look bad. 

But frankly, the Russian government could blame the Swiss for the attack. Plenty of Russians would still believe it without question. After all, they were the original inspiration for Orwell when he invented "duckspeak" and "blackwhite".


"I never said they wouldn't."

If you read your own posts, you'll see that you did. Or was the post made by some other Echidna?"How can that be interpreted as saying they wouldn't use submarines?"

Easily. 

And standard practice is for submarines to launch as close to the target as possible to ensure that detection systems can't provide any warning. So even if you had made yourself clear the first time, it would be a moot point.Russia has spent the last few months threatening the West, both physically and through rhetoric.

Military operations take money and months of planning to implement. I have a feeling that these boats would have still been sent even if Abbott had said nothing at all. And we'd be smart to assume this was the case.

The ships themselves are no conventional threat. All America needs to do is send a few shipments of coastal defence missiles and those boats are nothing but reefs in the making.The Americans would support Australia against any conflict with Russia.

But given the tone of your comments, I'm not sure I'd assume the same about you.Mitor. Australia is a long term ally of America. 

If the Americans refuse to defend us as promised in their treaty, the political game is over for them. Their alliances will crumble as their allies assume that they're similarly abandoned. American prestige would end. Russia and China would be emboldened.

Australia itself might have little use to America. But defending us is clearly in the USA's strategic interest.

As for Putin? He is currently annexing his neighbours, threatening his enemies, arresting his political rivals and playing "musical chairs" with his cronies while he figures out a way to stay in office forever. 

Yet your final comment would imply he's a political role model. The mind boggles. But I suppose you have clear reasons for admiring him.I know another old saying: "Don't fear the man who wants a thousand nukes - fear the man who only wants one"

People are afraid of Iran getting nukes, because their fundamentalist leaders are just the kind of people who would launch them at Israel and damn the consequences.

An Islamic militant will launch a rocket at Israel even though they know their neighbourhood will be levelled by the Israeli counterstrike. The fact they hurt Israel is worth any price. They'd do the same with a nuclear missile in a heartbeat.Russia is quite belligerent nowadays.

It's quite possible that these boats are just passing through the neighbourhood on their way to threaten some other country. 
Excellent point, Pastor.

Why don't we make a deal with Indonesia? We'll stop our boats from dumping people on their shores, if they stop their boats from dumping them on ours.You think that's bad?

ASIO recently designed the Budget Gap System. You covertly replace an enemy nation's treasurer with a Labor politician - the foe is bankrupt within a year.If I believed that the average Australian was capable of making policy decisions, I'd elect one of them to office.

One of the few redeeming features of representative democracy is that we can dump politicians who fail to deliver. If we switched to direct democracy, we wouldn't even have that little satisfaction.If legislation can make a court decision meaningless, this is a sign that it shouldn't have been the court's decision in the first place.

Judges can insist on judicial activism and twisting the law. But Parliament holds the power to make the laws ironclad. The judges  should enforce the law as it is, not as they think it should be.Marilyn.  We only guarantee open borders to people who can *prove* they are refugees with evidence. If they can't prove their claims to our satisfaction, we're allowed to deport them.

Furthermore, we only made the guarantee to people who come *directly* from their original country. It doesn't apply to people who travelled through several nations, but continued onward because they prefer to live under the Australian welfare system.

This is the reason we're turning back the boats. Since they come from Indonesia, this is prima facia evidence that none of the asylum seekers on the boats are genuine.You know they'll be killed for a fact?

You should provide your evidence to the asylum seekers - they can use the evidence for their asylum hearing."do we have to treat the ones who come here by boat like prisoners of war?"

Most nations would simply deport them, with a message that they'll be jailed (and subsequently re-deported) if they try again.

At least now, our turn-back policy is more in line with global standards.

Check your history. You'll notice a pattern. 

Society will always change when it's ready and not a moment before. Any attempt to bring this change early will be impossible at best and costly at worst.

Fossil fuels will eventually become short in supply. When it does, the demand and price for renewables will skyrocket. Where the climate lobby has systemically failed, the free market will effortlessly succeed - at a fraction of the cost and time.The solution is clear. In the mid-term, increase economic sanctions to their maximum. Over the long term, find an alternative gas supply and cut off Russia from Europe's economy.

Russia will no doubt find plenty of demand in China for their gas. But as a result of this, Russia's economy will be increasingly at the mercy of a government as capricious and assertive as their own. Putin might be smiling at the camera, but he won't be happy.  

Eastern Europe will need to continue asserting themselves against Russian aggression. Each time Russia resorts to force, it will be portrayed as the villain by the civilised world. That image in turn will make further action easily to justify.Stingel.

You're talking about what you think America might have done in a fictional situation to justify what Russia has actually done in a real situation.

Furthermore, you're arguing that because America influenced Ukraine's politics, this somehow gives Russia the right to annex and occupy parts of Ukrainian territory. There seems to be no logic behind that argument.Tiliqua.

There was a critical difference - America didn't send military forces to annex Bahrain's port area.

Stirrer. The West can decide who to befriend and who to trade with. If economic sanctions lead to war, this will be Russia's decision alone. 

If any war did occur, I'm fairly confident that China will stand right out of it. China might be willing to fight a war against America on their own behalf, but they're unlikely to do it for the sake of Russian pride. As a rule, China is a good customer, a poor ally and a terrible neighbour.The groups currently opposed to the West include Islamic terrorist groups in the Middle East, as well as oppressive governments like North Korea and Iran.

Given what they do to their own people and the people of other nations, the term "barbaric" seems appropriate.East Ukrainians were killed because they took up arms with Russian invaders. 

If the Eastern rebels hadn't fought, there would have been no conflict. Having started the conflict, they bear the legal responsibility for the deaths that resulted on both sides. 
"Whereas you failed to mention that fighter jets are often armed with cannon, including among those operated by Ukraine."

It is practically impossible for jets to hit other jets with cannon fire. The weapon is considered a last resort, only to be used when the pilot has no other option.

Furthermore, the Russians would have us believe that a fighter jet could make precision shots on a cockpit moving at incredible speeds. From the side. At an altitude level far higher than the Su-25's maximum limit. With a fighter designed for ground attack.

To believe the Russian story, you need to believe a series of increasingly unlikely facts. To believe the Ukrainian story, you just need to believe that Russia is doing what it always does.It's hard for me to answer on his behalf, since the point I addressed wasn't a question.

Since your reply asks no questions and provides no answers, there was no point making it.General disarray. 

My conclusions are based on the facts and the physical capabilities of the aircraft involved. The Russian story is unlikely, if not physically impossible.

"What is the difference between corresponding leaders spruiking for Team Russia and Team Australia?"

Team Australia is travelling halfway across the world to fight terrorism. Team Russia is travelling across the border to annex their neighbours.ISIL was openly hostile to the West from the moment it was established. It was never supported by America and this was the reason why Obama refused to give unconditional support to rebel groups.

But I suppose you need to believe that America created and supported ISIL. When you can't make the bad things go away, it's easier to pretend that you deserve them.Nice speech.

In the meantime, Russia will take another slice of Ukraine. Or possibly the Baltics. And as the crumbs from their newest meal drop from their mouth, they'll swear that they're the real victims and it's all the West's fault. 

But then, a new Russian empire might be your idea of "internationalism".Russia annexes part of Ukraine without Ukraine's permission. 

In Alpo's mind, this constitutes self-determination. In the mind of international law, it makes Russia's actions a war of aggression and expansion."There was a referendum in Crimea!"

The referendum was unconstitutional, unlawful and void. Since the rest of Ukraine were not permitted to vote on something which affected them, the referendum wasn't democratic.

If some people in Crimea wanted to leave Ukraine and join Russia, that's fine. But what they've done is completely the opposite - they stayed in the country and assist Russia to annex Ukraine's territory. 

Under Ukrainian law, what happened in Crimea was treason. Under international law, it constitutes a war crime. 

Kosovo declared independence. They weren't annexed into Russia by pro-Russian forces.

As for Scotland? They lacked the ability to hold such a referendum. They asked the UK for permission to hold a symbolic one. The result of any independence was to be implemented by the UK itself.Officially, it's about the right to privacy.

Unofficially, it's about the right to piracy."How obvious does it have to be supporters of this war that there is no real plan, no goal, with no exit strategy."

People said the same thing during the second world war. They had nothing genuine to add to the debate and were dismissed.

Our enemies don't become less dangerous simply because they're in another country. I'm willing to spend my tax money to fight this threat - and I'm willing to spend yours too.Dubious.

At the end of the day, pro-Russian militants and Russian soldiers have occupied part of Ukraine. The Ukrainian government doesn't want them there. Russia is the aggressor in this conflict and must be held accountable.

Given the tone of your comment, I have a feeling you're not really supporting Russia's actions because you believe them correct. You're just supporting them because they oppose the West.It is clear that Russia is returning to the nationalism, expansionism and villainy which pretty much defined them over the last two centuries. 

In the last ten years, Russia has fought two wars with it's neighbours and annexed their territory. They're sending military forces over borders to conquer by stealth. They're flying military planes to Europe and developing new nuclear missiles. All the time, their media whips up anger against the West.

The article asks "will there be a new cold war?". The answer is "That's up to Russia". The Russians are the ones instigating a new conflict. All the West can do is choose how it responds."Only when the US stops its hedgemony will peace start!"

The major conflicts in the world are being stimulated by Islamic terror groups, Russia and all those nations opposed to the West. If they disappeared tomorrow, the world would be far more peaceful.

Those groups don't contribute to peace now. So why do you think those groups will contribute to peace if they're no longer checked by Western power?You'll dismiss all the evidence and photographs provided by the media. But you'll still accept the word of "a Czech who lived in Ukraine for a decade" without any question.

Why is that?Ann. Until a baby is capable of living outside the womb, it is not alive and is not considered to be a legal individual with any rights.

This is how the law currently stands. Any other possibility would end up violating the mother's humanity, since it means the State has asserted control over her body.

If you force a pregnant woman to miscarry, it's currently covered under our laws as constituting grievous bodily harm and not murder.Uh....no. The offence requires you to disclose information. The term "disclose" means to reveal new information to someone who previously didn't have it. 

If information has been leaked into the public domain, it becomes public knowledge. From that point, it is impossible for the information to be disclosed further - the law will assume that everyone already knows.

Even if the author's argument had any chance of succeeding, no Australian government would be stupid enough to try and prosecute a journalist for reporting common knowledge. They could punish the journalist for being the one who originally revealed the information to the public domain, but that's a different thing.

The author falls into the common trap of lawyers. He's gotten so focused on the law, he forgot to account for common sense.It should be considered a badge of pride.

The reason that the UN spends most their time criticising Israel is simple: because Israel is the only nation in the area who might conceivably respond to UN pressure. 

If the UN tried to criticise any other nation in the Middle East, they'd just be ignored - and they know it.If the Muslim Brotherhood create terrorism when they're out of power, what do you think they'll do once they've got a military at their command?

If they took government, it was likely that they'd tear up the old peace agreements and start a new war with Israel. Using all of Egypt's shiny US-provided weapons as well.

The West is genuinely unhappy with the fact that Egypt is a dictatorship. But having the Muslim Brotherhood in control would have been a worse outcome.The Romans did exactly the same thing. They gave up on conquest, fenced off the rest of the world and left the barbarians to their own devices. 

Then the barbarians got organised, tore down the fences and sacked Rome. 

If the West does the same, history will repeat.Whitlam didn't even finish a single term in Parliament.

While he made a number of reforms, their success was actually due to the successive government who implemented them. They could have repealed them the moment Whitlam was gone - in which case, nobody would be remembering him today.Try this as a thought experiment:

Ask your friend to lift a cinder block off the ground. Then take it from your friend and hold it up above your head for the rest of the day. Then ask yourself - who deserves the credit for carrying it? And which one of you did the hard work?

In reality, starting something is easy. Especially when you don't need to stick around afterwards. Keeping it going as circumstances change is the hard part.QC Bob. The separation of powers doctrine relates to the separation of "Parliament, Judiciary and Executive". 

The Government and the Police are both parts of the Executive Branch - so separating them is a bit hard from a constitutional perspective.Judiciary - the judges, courts and tribunals.
Executive - the GG, PM, Cabinet, Ministries and Departments. 
Legislature - Parliament.

People tend to be confused because while Ministers are appointed by the Executive, they need to be drawn from the elected members in Parliament."The separation of powers have disappeared and Colvin should be sacked."

The Government has prepared a legislative amendment proposal relating to the police powers. Both the Government and the Police Force are components of the Executive.

I can understand that you might want to argue that police should be apolitical. But constitutionally, there isn't any issue here regarding the separation of powers.Sounds like a joke:

What does an unarmed police officer do when confronted by a weapon? They run away and call triple-zero.Plenty of Chris's articles have referred to the opinions of lawyers, journalists, diplomats and scientists commenting on the suitability of proposed legislation regarding their chosen fields.  

Since these new laws will be implemented by police, it's relevant to consider the opinions of police management and those who will implement the laws on a daily basis. 

If a police commissioner expressed doubts or fears about the legislation, I'm sure the author would be the first to demand that we listen to their words and take it as gospel.  But when he disagrees with their opinions? Suddenly they're foraying into politics and need to be told off."Tell me Zing when have the police ever rejected additional powers in the past."

They can't reject or accept powers - their powers are defined by Parliament.

But in my experience, police tend to hate being given additional powers. Especially when the power *must* be implemented and causes a scandal wherever someone makes a mistake. 

When the mistakes inevitably occur, their attitude is usually defiance mixed with reproach - "We did our best. If you didn't want us making the decision, you should have given the responsibility to someone else."It's about relativism.

Let's imagine that you owe a thousand dollars to the bank. Your neighbour owes a million dollars to the bank. Both of you are having difficulty paying back the loan. The bank threatens to foreclose on both properties.

From your perspective, which person has the greater debt emergency? The answer is you. 

Why? Because in the end, whether you keep your house or not depends on whether *you* can pay *your* debt. Not whether your neighbour can pay theirs.Harvey. If the changes to laws are passed democratically, then the result cannot be totalitarianism. Why? Because the laws are mandated by the people and can be removed in a similar manner.

There is a difference between objecting to totalitarianism and objecting to the results of a democratic system. Most people who think they're doing the first are actually trying to justify the second.

The moment you reject the legitimacy of a democratic government because you don't like the result, you're halfway to being a dictator yourself. Half the dictatorships on the planet occur because someone reaches for a gun the moment they're outvoted.

If a dictatorship ever arose in Australia, the laws will be what they want them to be. 

So it's a bit of a furphy to claim that these laws might be misused by a dictator in the future - the whole system would be misused. Whether these laws exist or not wouldn't make a difference to that outcome.

These laws won't directly help a dictator - but they might allow us to prevent them.The book "V for Vendetta" was about anarchy. It portrayed the anarchy movement as a self-centred, yet arguably effective solution to dictatorship.

The film was about terrorism. It portrayed a man blowing up buildings because he had a personal grudge against the government. The fact the government was a dictatorship wasn't directly mentioned. In fact, you could argue that the government being a democracy would have made no difference to the plot.You're comparing our current democracy to a fictional dictatorship, Splod.  Seems like you're disregarding reality and substituting your own. 

@wearycynic.

A democracy can't create a dictatorship. At some point, the dictatorship would need to unilaterally assert power over the democratic rights of the population. You can't create a dictatorship without ending the democracy first.

As to your other point? Assume the government in "V for Vendetta" was a democracy. You could pretty much run the exact same plot without any real change to the script. Want to know the actual theme of the movie? The hint is in the name.The definition of first world problems.

Western governments are grappling with the issue of terrorism. Parliament is trying to find a reasonable balance between national security and civil liberties. Legal experts argue over terminology. Politicians argue about checks and balances.

But the majority of Australians only care about one thing - will the legislation prevent them from pirating stuff off the internet?Eight hundred police? At the same property? At the same time? Just because of a plastic sword?

I think you're telling fibs, Yank. Not a good strategy if you want to be taken seriously.The extreme left probably feel like a child in a candy store about now.  If America steps back from ISIL, they get humbled and lose control of the region. If America fights ISIL, they lose more blood and treasure for intangible gains. 

It really is a strange world. ISIL and the left-wing are supposed to be natural enemies. But because of the left's association with anti-imperialism and anti-Americanism, they might as well be allies.The West has taken the position that a democratic ally is preferable to a dictatorial ally, but a dictatorial ally is still preferable to a democratic enemy.

As an example, the Islamic Brotherhood is hostile to the West. If they gained power, they'd probably use US-supplied weapons to close the Suez and start a regional war against Israel in defiance of peace treaties. 

So while Egypt's former democracy might want to elect them, the West had no interest in giving them the slightest support against the military's counter coup. After all, why support your enemies?I find it acceptable for the USA to support allies over their enemies.

Democracy might make our friends more pleasing to the eye, but it won't make our enemies any less hostile.
"that went well in Iraq, Chile and countless other places"

It worked for a time. In some cases, it worked for decades. So politically, it would seem to be a better outcome then having them democratic and enemies for the whole of the same period.David Kay. If the partisans in the West disappeared today, the militants of Islamic State would still be killing and raping people tomorrow. 

I'm sorry, but your comment makes no sense.ISIL militants are currently looting, raping and murdering civilians in their territory. In all likelihood, the young teenager is joining in on the activities.

So I'm having trouble seeing him as the harmless Oliver Hardy type - call it a lack of humour if you will."There are pictures of Presidential hopeful John McCain posing with the leaders of ISIL"

Really? Never seen them. In fact, I'll consider it a hoax unless you can verify it.

"He was the one calling for a blanket policy on arming all and anyone who claimed to be anti-Assad. And we saw how well that worked out."

Yes. Because McCain isn't in charge of policy and Obama didn't follow his suggestion. But you're probably assuming America has been supplying ISIL from the start, same as the "photo" of McCain.
Plenty of sources verify them as real. But most credible sources (including several prominent left-wing ones) have accepted them as being laughable fakes.

As for the US supplying ISIL? No real evidence. And ISIL has been openly hostile to America from the moment it was created, so it's a bit unrealistic. 

Ann. 

Not taking sides in a conflict doesn't make you neutral. It makes you a preserver of the status quo and hence a supporter of whichever side benefits most from your complacency.Ann.

At the end of the day, ISIL is the one who benefits most from your attitude. So while you can claim not to support any side, the result is clearly not neutral.

ISIL doesn't need you to support them. They just need you to not support the West.Dave. Totalitarian + Right = Fascist.

Islamofascism is a phrase which has been associated with Islamic terrorism for a while. The fact that ISIL has set up its own state just makes the term even more appropriate.Ann.

If you fight out of uniform, you can't be distinguished from a civilian. This counts as a war crime and depending on the law, you can be tried and executed for it.
To answer your statements:

Yes, they're all war criminals. No, you don't need to declare war on someone to legally fight them. They're not civilians, they're unlawful combatants - civilians don't have guns and tanks.

As far as international law goes, I wouldn't quit your day job.Eric.

If evidence exists that Iran has nuclear weapons, it is unlikely that the Security Council or the ICJ will have the capacity to remove those weapons or prevent their use.

Based on this fact, the West must consider the available evidence and take whatever action is deemed appropriate.Eric. Since you can't possibly know what evidence has being collated on Iran, I simply assume that your statement is an opinion and nothing more. 

At any rate, the West will decide what evidence exists and how reliable it will be. If the West decides to take action on Iran, I'm sure you'll have plenty of commentary to add.Alpo. The GST is a flat rate.

The more you earn, the more you spend. The more you spend, the more GST you end up paying. If anything, you'd argue the GST is a progressive tax - it's a tax on spending and the rich spend the most.Lawyers are among the most ethical of professions.

They deal with assets worth millions to their clients. They represent clients in court where their liberty might be on the line. Due to the nature of the lawyer-client relationship, lawyers are subject to codes of conduct which put all other professions to shame. 

If a lawyer breaks a single law, they'll need to write an urgent letter to the practice board explaining why they shouldn't be disbarred from the profession. And if they intentionally breach a rule relating to professional conduct, their career is over.

Scientists are no comparison. You'd have a deeper client-trust relationship with a plumber.Why?

Terrorism is inherently illegal in both civil and military law. All nations have an interest in preventing it.

But there's nothing inherently wrong about war itself or fighting in a foreign military force. So why should we be concerned with our citizens fighting for another military?  Provided they don't take arms against our interests, there's no problem. If they do, it's a matter for treason laws.

If you've got no problem with people being legally obliged to do service, why do you think volunteers should be banned? It would help if you could name which particular "nationalities" you're so frightened about."You'd have to guess something has gone horribly wrong when Australians are more concerned about the alleged cure than they are of the disease."

If that's the case, these laws won't survive the next election.

But I think what you're really concerned about is the opposite: That your concerns are not reflected in the general population, meaning you'll just have to learn to live with the outcome.Which brings me back to my original comment.  If the majority of people are concerned with these laws, they'll be scrapped one way or the other. 

But most likely, people will simply lose interest once they realise their doors aren't being kicked in. Those who *are* afraid of their doors being kicked in probably have a good reason to expect it.If you don't agree with party policies, run for office as an independent.

If you can't get enough support to be voted into parliament, then it's a sign that society doesn't believe your views are worth sharing and shouldn't be implemented - the democratic system has worked perfectly.Australia's democracy is healthy and working fine. Revolution is not required here. If it occurs, it will represent an act of violence by a minority group, who seeks to overthrow our democracy and set themselves up as dictators.

When democracies fall to revolutions, it is because of people like Brand who are unable to accept a world where they don't get their way. The moment they get outvoted by the majority, they take to the streets and reach for the guns. 

The situation is different in countries like China, Iran, Syria or North Korea. These nations are dictatorships and they're willing to kill their own people to prevent the establishment of a democratic government. 

In those situations, revolution is required. And given that the UN Charter is founded on democratic principals, it is appropriate for UN members to support action to overthrow dictatorships.AJC.

You might object to the poor getting poorer. You may object to wars. You may object to bankers getting richer at your expense. You may object to Australia breaking treaties.

But these things resulted from a democratic system. You're free to disagree with them, but you can't overrule them. Why? Because society mandated this outcome.Kropotkin. There is no such thing as a "peaceful occupation movement". 

If you're occupying someone else's property against their wishes after they tell you to leave, your occupation becomes an act of physical force and thus an act of violence.

When protestors occupy public property, it needs to be on society's terms as defined by society's representatives. Otherwise, the occupation is violent and society is entitled to respond with whatever level of force is needed to end it.

If a hundred people decided to "peacefully occupy" your house, I think you'd find the police actions to be quite reasonable in the circumstances.You want to ditch your political party? Feel free.

But the rest of society have the right to vote in political blocs if they want. If they form the majority, then their party should be calling the shots. That's the democratic system in action.

The healthy attitude to democracy is to recognise the goal. Everyone gets a say. Not everyone gets what they want."Yeah, go look through CIA history. They pull off stuff all the time that makes 9/11 look like nothing."

And that's the point.

Those operations make 9/11 look like nothing. Yet for all the CIA's attempts at secrecy, the operations are now public knowledge. With the rise of internet power and activist snitches like Snowden, long-term secrecy is practically impossible.

If 9/11 was a real conspiracy, the details would have been confirmed by now. It's been more than a decade and we still have nothing but speculation. This indicates that speculation is all that the conspiracy is.

The term "conspiracy theory" has been used for well over a hundred years.

The common belief that the CIA invented the term is actually a good example of a conspiracy theory - that's irony for you.As the saying goes "He who surrenders liberty for safety deserves neither."

But we are not surrendering anything. Our nation is wilfully restricting its liberty through democratic process. If the nation wishes the restriction to end in the future, it can achieve this using the same democratic process.

Nothing is being given away. Nothing is being lost. 

The problem with East Germany was not its security measures, but the fact that those measures were imposed undemocratically."Nobody voted for these laws."

Parliament voted for the laws. That's how democracy works. They have access to the legislation and they can discuss it in the lower house as much as they wish prior to the vote.ACJ. Do you refuse to acknowledge the legitimacy of our democracy whenever you disagree with it's decisions? 

If so, you might be exactly the kind of anti-democratic person these laws are designed to protect us from.It's perfectly reasonable to be afraid of a deranged teenager armed with an assault rifle.

If anything, you should be pleased that this issue is becoming bipartisan.Yank. You refuse to recognise a terrorist as a threat unless he's standing right in front of you. 

That approach is fine for a personal perspective, but completely useless from a national security perspective.Nonsense, ingenious.

The "kid" has joined our enemies. At best, he'll be a standover man for an illegitimate Islamic dictatorship. At worse, he'll be a murderer and a rapist using the Middle East as his personal playground. 

But when you see him, you just see a naughty boy being silly. I have a feeling that you don't really believe this and are just trying to justify the preservation of your liberty at the cost of other people's lives.Yank.

Perhaps you can travel to Syria and confront the 17 year old braggart? I'm sure he'll cower in fear, leaving you to come home and get a nice medal out of it.

Better do it quick, though. The laws might make it difficult to travel there in a few weeks.The murderer didn't just front up and confess.

He was identified as a suspect by the metadata, which also proved his proximity to the victim and dismissed his alibi. This in turn justified the warrant for the DNA test, which proved his guilt beyond all doubt.

The murderer plead guilty for a simple reason - the evidence had already damned him.Keith.

If a person represents me in Parliament and gets paid by my tax, then anything relating to their personal morality and judgement is my business - since it relates to my decision to elect them. 

I don't care if a person is a corrupt racist who lies and cheats on their spouse. But I don't want them representing me in Parliament, where their perfidy can do me harm.Your proposal is actually a good idea. I'd support it.

At any rate, the fact that information is private doesn't stop it being relevant to other people's decisions. That's why privacy isn't absolute.

It's also worth pointing out that mental illness isn't a matter of choice. Lying, cheating and racism are far worse flaws, since they result from a conscious decision.There is a difference, Atomou.

Our soldiers focus on killing Islamic militants - we only kill civilians by accident. The Islamic militants focus on killing civilians - they only kill our soldiers by accident.
The bills are accessible to the public once they're tabled in Parliament. Whether you choose to read them or skip them and comment anyway is up to you.

Likewise with our members of Parliament. Four days heavy reading might be hard on them. But I expect them to do their homework, since it's literally the only thing they're paid to do.Following the bell curve principle, half the voters in this country are average or lower intelligence. Why would you want them to have a direct vote on our legislation?

Look up the concept of "tragedy of the commons". Then apply it to direct democracy and imagine the outcome. Poor people voting for endless handouts. Criminals voting to remove laws. Anarchists voting for disruption's sake. 

Elected representatives can be held to account if they don't perform. If I can't fire the Australian population when they make bad legislation, then I see no good reason why they should have the direct power to make law. No power without accountability.Frankly, our nation would last all of three weeks under a direct democracy.

Week 1 - Scrap all taxation for the working class.
Week 2 - Tax the rich into poverty.
Week 3 - Go bankrupt. Commence rioting when the centrelink offices shut down.

No nation could survive the executive decisions of the average citizen. The general public knows this. That's why they don't elect "average people" to represent them and run the government.George. The scenario was neither paranoid or hysterical. 

All I did was take the comments of left-wingers on this forum and assume they'd put those views into practice if they ever had the opportunity.

Dismiss my comment if you want. Your comrades will inevitably prove you wrong.Moka. Self defence does not require you to be harmed by your attacker first. It merely requires you to believe a threat exists, then take action to remove the threat.

Otherwise, you would be forcing law-abiding nations to sit back and endlessly react to the actions of aggressor nations, while the aggressor will be protected the moment they call uncle and flee. The law can't be interpreted in this way.

Remember the legal maxim "lawful until proven unlawful". Until the Iraq War is proven illegal by a competent court, it's fair to operate on the assumption that the war was legal and proper."I am not suggesting a sit down with already radicalised and clearly brainwashed fighters in the Middle East. I'm talking about engaging young people in Australian communities so they don't end up becoming a radicalised nutbar in the Middle East."

And here is the contradiction.

You think we should treat them differently, even though you've admitted that one becomes the other."Solve the social problems in Iraq (and Syria) and terrorism will evaporate off its own accord."

A bold assertion. Care to provide any examples of this working in practice?Most conflicts end with some kind of ceasefire agreement. The Good Friday Agreement was no different. 

It's not proof of Lilly's assertion, which you might want to read.Israel has been at war for half a century and this had little to do with social problems.

As for the remaining ones you listed, their social issues continue. Whatever ended their past conflicts, it wasn't anything resembling Lilly's solution.ACJ. Israel is not the reason for Islamic terrorism. It is merely the excuse.

If you removed Israel from the middle east tomorrow, the wars and sectarian conflicts currently occurring in the Middle East would continue without missing a beat. 

If you removed all the nations of the middle east *aside* from Israel, the region would be at peace tomorrow. Clearly, that is a sign that Israel is not the true issue here. The fault lies in the rest of the middle east as a collective.You don't fireproof a house by setting fire to it. You don't control your dog by removing the lead.

You don't save a federation by decentralising power. Quite the opposite, decentralisation is the first step of dismantling. I suspect this might be the author's true goal.Yank. You're not elected and you don't currently sit in Parliament. 

You might find it desirable to be briefed on the individual laws in front of Parliament, but it clearly isn't required from a democratic perspective.

Given that you're unlikely to vote for the Liberals, they won't lose anything by keeping you in the dark. The best way to delegitimise your opponent? Ensure they have no information on the things they oppose.Todd.

Parliament is elected by the people. It makes laws as the duly appointed representatives of our democracy.

These laws are not repressive for a simple reason: they are self inflicted. We can restrict ourselves through democratic means, but we can't repress ourselves through democratic means. Democracy and repression are mutually exclusive.Todd. 

The laws are created by a duly elected Parliament and the supporting democratic systems. Your personal objection to these laws will not make them any less democratic. 

If you feel that democratic laws are repressive, it might be a sign that you view yourself as being separate from our democracy and its laws. In which case, the issue would be your perspective.

By all means. Disagree with these laws and say they should be changed. But be careful that you don't reject the legitimacy of these laws or the Parliament who made them - doing so is the short path to radicalism.China and North Korea are dictatorships, both technically and practically.

A "single party democracy" is a nonsense term. It makes as much sense as a "flightless aircraft" or a "three sided square".Mike. In every generation, there has been a small proportion of young men who go overseas and end up joining the enemies of their home nation. 

Previous generations had a simple way of coping with it - they tried the young men for treason and executed them. 

But in this generation, we're no longer willing to treat home-grown traitors as enemies. So we need laws to restrict and prevent their treachery from occurring in the first place.Frangipani.

There is a difference between a civil liberty enshrined in legislation and a de-facto civil liberty which only arose because the governments of the past never bothered to restrict it.

An example of the first is due process of law and presumption of innocence. An example of the second is general privacy, or leaking secret information to the media because of a personal vendetta against the government.

I would suggest that most de-facto civil liberties are more accurately described as "civil privileges". They exist only because society permits it - hence, they can be restricted when society deems it appropriate.Smart people can still have stupid ideas. They're just better at rationalising it.Ebola has two aspects: Humanitarian and medical. 

The first issue involves treating symptoms. The second issue is about treating cause. The first requires medical staff and facilities. The second requires isolation and controlled borders.

Australia is being asked to take our medical and military staff and drop them halfway around the world, in the middle of a dangerous problem they have no realistic hope of solving. Humanitarian work - not medical work.In situations of crisis, medical systems follow the triage principle. It makes no sense to risk our doctors lives in an epidemic with a 70% fatality rate. 

If our goal is to save lives, we're better off keeping the doctors here and having them work an extra hour in the emergency room.

If our goal is to prevent an epidemic, we're better off sending military units to their border to enforce a quarantine.If you have plastic surgery and openly admit it, then it's a matter of cosmetics.

If you have plastic surgery and keep it secret, it's a matter of deception. So you can't complain if someone notices and calls you out on it.

If you haven't had plastic surgery and someone claims you have, it's a compliment. A small, private joke at the accuser's expense.Yank. 

If you were going to be the one who ends up in that 17 year olds crosshairs, you might think differently. Seems that you're only concerned with terrorism when it affects you personally.

Unlikely. In fact, I'd almost guarantee that we'll soon hear a chorus of left-wingers who will claim that:

1. The attack was real and an inevitable product of our foreign policy;
2. The attack was a false-flag by the CIA/Mossed/NWO; or
3. The police knew the attack was coming and allowed it to occur for reasons sinister.

Some might even claim all three at the same time. What they won't say is the truth - namely, that they value their personal liberty over the lives of others.Steve. 

If you had to choose between my civil liberties or your life, which would you pick? 

Consider the flip-side of that probability, Grazzt.

If we suffer a terrorist attack, the odds that you will be the unlucky victim is a million to one. The odds that someone else will die is a virtual certainty. 

It's easy to make a wager when you're playing with someone else's stake. If you're going to gamble my safety for the sake of your liberties, it's only reasonable that I gamble your liberties for the sake of my safety."I think that a large number of young Australian men went to war and died so that you can live the life that you do."

You think wrongly.

Our soldiers died to uphold the territorial boundaries of Europe and South East Asia. It had little to do with the civil liberties of the average Australian in the street, especially since most of the liberties we have now didn't exist at that time.

The sacrifice of our soldiers was brave and worthy. But Australian lives were sacrificed for the sake of other nation's liberties, not for our own. That is what made the sacrifice so selfless.Most of the predictions in my post were proven right within two hours.  

Have a read of the comments on the forum if you don't believe me. All we need is a "false-flag" comment and the set is complete.Aussie Sutra.

I never said the false-flag comments would be right or wrong. Only that they would be made by someone. And if you had stepped beyond the hypothetical in your post, it could have been you.Please clarify, Yank.

Are you arguing that we should devote more resources to stopping domestic abuse? If so, how?

Or are you arguing we should devote less resources to stopping terrorism? If so, why?Yank. 

If the solution to preventing domestic violence involved a restriction of your civil liberties, I have a feeling you'd react to the proposal in exactly the same way you're reacting right now.Shawshank. There are two separate issues here. 

Spurr broke the rules of his employer. The person who outed him broke the rules of privacy. Spurr might be an intolerant or hateful person, but this doesn't mean he becomes fair game for privacy violation. 

He was outed as a bigot and he's paying the price for his actions. Now it's time for the person who violated his privacy to pay the price for theirs - they shouldn't be excused simply because of their choice of victim.Gender is a matter of self-identity. Sex is a matter of chromosomes.

If you have a naturally occurring Y-chromosome, it makes you a male from a biological perspective. No amount of cosmetic surgery, organ removal or hormone therapy will change this.

It isn't offensive to refer to a blind person as blind, or a deaf person as deaf. These terms are simple descriptions of fact. If a blind person insisted that they were not blind, it would be a lie. Yet most blind people have no trouble accepting the nature of their blindness, even if most would prefer not to be.

So why should it be offensive to refer to someone as male or female, when that is what they are chromosomally? And why should biological gender be something so difficult to accept about yourself, when it has no bearing on one's gender or self-identity?If you have a natural Y-chromosome, you are biologically male.

No amount of medical procedure or hormone therapy is capable of changing this fact. What you call a "sex change" is actually an elaborate form of cosmetic surgery - it fools the eye, not the body.

Likewise, your perception of a "CY cisgender woman" is flawed. They are male - their Y-chromosome is exactly where it's supposed to be. Their medical condition relates to the way their body developed, not their sex.
Yank. Putting violent criminals in jail is an immense benefit to society. 

Every day they sit in a cell, they're no longer posing a threat. If we could jail criminals cheaply, we'd just give most of them a mandatory life term and write them off entirely. Most of society wouldn't shed a tear.

I would also like to have a rethink on punishment. For some reason, many people see jail as being a form of social debt repayment for naughty citizens. Do the crime, do the time, then walk out and all is forgiven.

But jail shouldn't be about punishment. It should be about protection and preventing reoffence. Every time a criminal reoffends, it represents a failure of the system - a sign that the criminal shouldn't have been released in the first place.The author's argument is flawed.

The register doesn't exist to punish offenders after they've served their sentence. The register is *part* of their sentence, which they've yet to work off.

But I agree that the register hasn't been proven to prevent reoffending. So instead, the system should be redesigned to serve as a means of warning the public. Tattoos on the forehead would be preferable. That way, potential victims know to be on their guard whenever the individual is around them.  
I have a question, Hellen.

If your family friend had sexually abused you when you were nine, would you use quotation marks when referring to yourself as a victim?
Retrospectivity should never be applied to crimes. If something you do is legal today, you shouldn't be punished if it becomes defined as a crime tomorrow.

But in this case, there is no retrospectivity. Rape was a crime yesterday. It remains a crime today. The offender was convicted and punished. The register is merely a social system regarding their rehabilitation.The register is designed to:

1. Prevent offenders from posing a threat to others; and
2. Notify society that the offender poses a threat.

Both are connected to rehabilitation, not punishment.It is impossible for the students to be a threat to China's sovereignty.

Why? Because China currently has no sovereignty to threaten. Their sovereignty was confiscated by Mao in 1950 and the nation has been ruled by a single party dictatorship ever since.China won't last another decade or so. 

The cracks are beginning to form. Riots occur almost every second week from irate citizens. They have the world's largest modern military, just so they can maintain control over their own country. 

Petrol costs, food costs and climate change will just add fuel to the fire. No dictatorship lasts forever and China's government is fighting an inevitable revolution.Parliament could pass a rule stating that you're not allowed in the public gallery unless you wear a blue hat. It decides it's own procedures for its own reasons - Abbott's involvement is limited.

At any rate, this debate seems to be working perfectly. Everyone's clearly set on the idea that a complete burka ban is too extreme and physical segregation is clearly unnecessary. 

So the original issue - requiring people to remove their burkas at security points to allow identification - now becomes quite reasonable in comparison. The public will now see such a policy as a fair compromise, while Parliament will see it as getting exactly what they wanted in the first place.

"The Security people have always had the power to ask people to remove face coverings for identification purposes."

The power was discretionary and subject to internal policy. 

Until a few months ago, forcing an Islamic woman to remove her burqua for identification would have caused a protest in the streets. But now that a complete ban is being discussed, the original policy looks more reasonable by the second.The problem is that Ebola represents two distinct issues:

1. Humanitarian issue; and
2. Global health issue.

Charities are demanding more resources for the first problem. Governments are unwilling to do so, since they're busy committing all their resources for the second problem.Africa is a combination of large populations, poor sanitation and insufficient healthcare. 

An epidemic was merely a matter of time. Until you stop Africa from being a human petri-dish, any money we throw at Ebola is just treating symptoms and not causes.  

The 18 million dollars we throw at the outbreak is wasted. The millions we've spent on Australia's medical systems and containment procedures is not."Ebola won't be stopped by packing it an orange life boat and towing it to Indonesia."

If Indonesia has an Ebola outbreak, people will flee the country for Australian shores. Many of those "refugees" will bring the virus with them, infecting everyone else on their leaky boats.

In that situation, towing the boats back will form a critical part of our containment procedure.
Labor doesn't have many options. The reason they are so quiet lately is because they have nothing to say which can't be turned back on them.

No budget? Labor is the one blocking it. Mean budget? It's only mean because Labor spent all the nation's cash.  Indonesian diplomacy crisis? Labor caused it via their past decisions. Child abuse inquiries, terrorism and Russia? All bipartisan issues. Boat people and leadership divisions? Subjects that Labor want to avoid like the plague.

Their stance on Ebola will clearly backfire, but it's better than being divisive on any other issue. Labor's long term game is to portray themselves as a credible alternative government. In the sense of "We're exactly the same as them - minus Abbott".Are you disputing that Labor was blocking the budget? Or that they were responsible for the deficit? Or that terrorism is a bipartisan issue? Or that Shorten would rather chew off his own arm then raise the subject of party disunity?

My post wasn't an opinion - it was a summary of facts. You're just denying for the sake of it.You can't have it two ways, Bob.

If Labor and its cronies can block legislation in the upper house, they have ownership of the result.Yank.

If Ebola becomes established here, the first question on everyone's lips will be "why was Labor focusing on Africa when they should have been worried about their own country?"

Labor's already pulled the pin on this grenade. As soon as the first confirmed medical report comes in, the mess will blow up in their faces. But I suppose it was better than saying nothing at all and remaining in lockstep with the government - which is the worst thing you can do in opposition."Why didn't you help stop Ebola at the source?"

Because doing so is impossible.

Africa has too many people, too little sanitation and not enough medical facilities. In that environment, the epidemic was inevitable and unstoppable. 

This is why developed nations are focusing on containment, rather than wasting money and people trying to solve the issue at the source. Labor is out of step on this issue, speaking from the heart instead of the brain.Alpo. There is a difference between "stopping" something at the source and "containing" it at the source.

Stopping the outbreak in Africa is impossible. So instead, we are focusing our resources on preventing it from spreading further.

The per-capita argument is bunk.

Imagine a boat which is overloaded by hundreds of people. When it sinks, there's no point turning to blame the little fat kid because he "had more weight per capita then the rest of us". In the end, the weight of the whole group sunk the boat - not the extra kilos of one small passenger.

Australia could sink beneath the waves tomorrow. The impact we have on global emissions would be small enough to constitute a statistical error. We are not a significant part of the problem, nor are we a significant part of the solution.

Nations like China and America may well turn to us and say "why should we change if you won't?". It's a perfectly valid argument. But we have a perfectly valid reply: "Because humanity can live with Australia's emissions - it won't survive yours".Australia has an economy which is almost twice the size of Indonesia's with only a fraction of the population size.

Yet Indonesia hasn't felt the need to make English compulsory in their schools. Why do we need to make their language compulsory in ours?Yank.

ISIL are expanding out in every direction. They pose a threat to anyone who is in their path or within their territory. They will continue to expand until confronted and stopped. 

Hence, ISIL can only threaten the West if we sit back and allow them to grow unchecked. Funny enough, this is exactly what you've been suggesting we do.For most historical figures, the evidence is parallel. You have a whole web of branching evidence from multiple sources, all pointing towards the historic figure in the middle.

For Jesus, the evidence is linier. Every bit of evidence boils down to one of two things:

1. The evidence was provided by someone who assumed the Bible was true; or
2. The person providing the evidence was quoting someone else who assumed the bible was true.

Take away the assumption the bible was true, all the evidence for Jesus is struck out. He just ends up being a fictional character, plonked into the middle of history.Then you clearly haven't read what they wrote.

If you told me that Harry Potter existed, I could write down your testimony. 

But in the end, I'd just be making a note about a person who assumed a fictional character was real. Worse than hearsay and useless as far as historic evidence is concerned.We have plenty of quotes from Walt Disney. His quotes don't constitute historic proof that Mickey Mouse was a real person.

Likewise with Tacitus. His quotes provide evidence that that Catholicism existed in roman times. But his comments don't provide any true evidence that Jesus existed - in all his comments, he simply assumed Jesus must have existed because that's what he had been told by others.

You can assume Jesus existed. It doesn't make his existence a fact. And your assumption can be recorded in a book, which gets quoted by a historian, which gets written down in another book - but the initial assumption will not become any more factual.Plenty of people do just fine without a job.

Life is peachy - provided you live in a country rich enough to have a universal welfare system.Even our poor are born into privilege.

If they had been born in any other part of the world, they'd be working a sweatshop, swinging a pickaxe in an unstable mine or living on subsistence farming in the bushland. 

You're free to feel sorry for people on welfare. I wonder who they feel sorry for?Corporations are owned by people, at some point along the line.

Infringe the corporation's right to speech - you infringe the rights of the corporation's owners.The survey skipped two critical questions:

1. "Do you personally contribute to the wealth of the upper classes?"
2. "Do you believe that you're entitled to a portion of their wealth?"

I have a feeling that those who say "no" to the first would still say "yes" to the second.
Most comments become irrelevant once you remove it from the context by six degrees of separation.

The question is how many degrees. An unemployed person on welfare is unlikely to contribute to anyone's wealth, except to the extent that they stimulate the market by spending someone else's income.

The other half of your comment is quite correct. In a democracy, a person is entitled to whatever the majority permits them. Which leads to the age old saying: "Democracy is two wolves and a lamb voting on who to eat for dinner".Comrade. The term hinges on the term "imprisoned".

If the detainees on Manus Island want to leave, all they need to do is cancel their asylum application. They'll be promptly deported to their last port of origin (or their country of origin - whichever they prefer).

The camp only prevents them from trespassing on Manus Island without permission. Since they have an option to leave, they aren't considered imprisoned - ergo, Manus Island isn't a prison, so it can't be a concentration camp.Australia doesn't have the capacity to take large numbers of poor, unskilled and uninvited migrants. Our police can barely manage a rowdy party, let alone a race riot, ghetto or a mainland refugee camp. 

Asylum seeker numbers are going to increase with time. Food prices, petrol costs, climate change and poverty will cause millions to attempt to migrate here. And they'll pretend to be refugees if that's what it takes to get in. 

Sooner or later, we'll need to start telling boat people that their story isn't good enough and turn them around. Restricted borders is an inevitability. The recent change in mainstream party policy is the first step in a process which was a long time coming.

So enjoy your moralistic sniping while you can, Gerard. Attitudes like yours have already reached their use-by date.For most of these boat people, their last port of origin was Indonesia.

Are you suggesting that Indonesia will persecute or kill them?For a good portion of the last millennium, having a boatload of 6-foot Swedes landing on your shores was the worst thing to happen to many coastal communities.The bombing of Iraq has already been debated thoroughly on pro-terrorist and anti-western forums. 

There doesn't seem to be much reason for allowing the Greens to rehash these arguments in Parliament.The "Golden Rule" is not unique to Christianity. 

Variations can be found in every single faith and philosophy. Even the ones from ancient times, which existed long before the Abrahamic faiths were even founded.At this stage, the health authorities are pushing two narratives:

1. The epidemic in Africa can be managed with sufficient resources; and
2. Our health systems are sufficiently prepared for an national outbreak.

My hope is that these narratives are bold-faced lies designed to keep the population calm. If they actually believe these things, we might be in a lot of trouble.Frangipani. You're just making my point. 

We're currently at the stage where the epidemic is at it's most controllable. Yet we've already seen health authorities in several nations drop the ball.

If they're stuffing up now, what makes you think they'll do any better once things kick off and people start fleeing their countries by any means available?Native is another way of saying "established in the local environment for a long time". 

Sooner or later, feral cats will be considered native animals. Perhaps in ten years. Definitely within a century. It's an issue of human perception and time.

By the same notion - We assign worth to a species based on their rarity. Native fauna only became precious once it became endangered. And if roses were easy to grow, we'd spend our afternoons spraying them with weedkiller.Actually people move on when something *appears* to be better. It doesn't always work out.

France cut off their kings head and thought that was it. But it took another century of coups, wars and revolutions before they finally formed a competent government.

Russia overthrew their monarch and ended up going through a century of misery and repression, in addition to causing a lot of trouble for the world. Now they've gone full circle, flocking to the authority of the Orthodox Church and Tzar Putin.No nation ever cut their way to greatness - but plenty of nations have spent their way into oblivion.Helvi. One in seven Australians will always live under the poverty line. 

Poverty is relative to a country's wealth. The richer people are, the more things cost and the higher the poverty line climbs.

You ask what greatness can emerge from poverty? Look at the richest nations in the world. Consider what their poverty line was half a century ago.The Labor party drove the budget into a ditch. Now the Liberals have the unenvious task of figuring out how to get the car back on the road again.

By all means, you can criticise the Liberals for not solving the problem. But Labor still has the blame for causing the problem in the first place.Greece is different. They are surrounded by European neighbours, tow cables ready. You can afford to be stuck in a ditch when you've got the EU trading bloc watching your back.

No such luck for Australia. None of our neighbours is going to bail Australia out of trouble, judging by how much foreign aid we need to give them every year.

You claim it would take 50 years of Labor spending to end up like Greece. But given the general trend of Labor's budget predictions, I think it would have been a lot sooner. People knew it too - that's why they elected the otherwise unelectable Abbott.The Labor party isn't going to create fear about loss of jobs and public services.

Why? Because Labor spent the last few years running the budget into the ground. Shorten can't blame Abbott for the mess while the smell leads back to Labor.Every time I read Homer's Illiad, I'm filled with an unquenchable desire to conquer Troy and go on to establish a proud society of warriors on the Italian peninsula.

I suppose I should count my lucky stars that most classical works don't refer to smoking, or I'd probably be in a lot of trouble by now.Not by any means, Yank.

You have the right to hate, not the right to harm. Thus a free society should allow you the right to advocate hate if you wish - but prevent you from advocating harm.Hate and harm are two different things. One is lawful and the other is not.

If you advocate hate, it's impossible to directly cause someone to harm. This is because harm can only result if the harmer goes beyond what you propose in your hate speech.

Advocating harm is far more serious. In that situation, your speech isn't just hate speech but also instructions. And if you're giving instructions, you should be accountable when people carry them out.If you give a speech about the selfishness of cigarette companies, should you be held accountable if one of your audience decides to burn down their corporate headquarters?

There is a line between harm speech and hate speech.Dove. Anti-Semitism shouldn't be a crime either. And I speak as a long standing supporter of Israeli foreign policy. 

Israel's survival is partially due to the fact that their enemies are too stupid to keep their hatred a secret. When you hear the words of hate, you are warned that deeds might follow.

I'm aware that Germany has outlawed anti-Semitism. But this is an attempt to make up for their shameful past, when they expanded out in all directions and tried to exterminate anyone who didn't meet their social ideals.In the same sense, not all harm is illegal.

So I'd expect the law to be qualified for reasonableness. If a particular kind of harm isn't illegal, it shouldn't be an offence to advocate this kind of harm either.Not all hate leads to terror, Yank.

You appear to have a clear hate for Abbott, but I doubt this terrifies him.Trent. The Labor-Green-PUP bloc may have the Coalition over a barrel right now, but this situation won't continue indefinitely.

Labor's long term prospects are far more grim. They're gradually losing their moderates to the right and their extremists to the left. Every term, they end up with less of a majority and more beholden to the Greens. This results in policy compromises which upset their voters even further and the cycle continues.

I don't think the Labor party is finished yet. But even their own supporters can see that their heyday is behind them and they seem to be stuck on a gradual downward slope. Union corruption isn't going to help the situation.Horse racing is indeed the sport of kings.

But the term "King" is used in the sense of "elitism, indulgence and selfish cruelty", rather than "handwaving, proper use of cutlery and charity work".The author does not acknowledge the political reality. Like Pakistan, Turkey is only a nominal ally of the West. 

There is strong anti-western and anti-Israel sentiments in the population of these nations. While few would agree with ISIL's actions so close to their border, I'm sure plenty of Turks agree with ISIL's perspective of the western world and support ISIL over the West.

Turkey isn't likely to take any direct action against ISIL. Doing so would create dissent in their domestic anti-western lobby and lead to Turkey's government being voted out of office.

Likewise, ISIL is unlikely to directly attack Turkey. What ISIL really wants is to take control of the Syrian-Turkish border, which will then allow them to gain a stable source of weapons and material via Turkey.
Neil. Planes will always carry anti-air weapons. Otherwise, they'll be sitting ducks in a dogfight. 

In this case, the allied aircraft have the missiles in case Syria tries something stupid.Armoured warfare follows three basic rules: Travel as a column. Manoeuvre as a rank. Fight as a squad.

The tanks in the photo are in rank. 

If we presume that the tanks are on the Turkish border as claimed in the photo description, it appears the tanks are on standby and ready for tactical manoeuvres.Jacko. It's nothing to do with supernatural deities or climate change. It's just a matter of population.

population &gt; social control = Epidemic

The West had the same situation a few centuries ago. Our medieval societies grew faster than our medieval health and social systems could manage. Then the Black Death arrived and wiped out half of Europe's entire population.

Now it looks like African society is about to go through their own version. The only question is whether the West has sufficient resources to spare them from the lessons we learnt in the 1300s.An Ebola epidemic can be managed, provided that you have:

(a) a modern health system;
(b) a lawful and orderly society; and
(c) sufficient medical supplies.

Africa lacks the first and second element, meaning that a pandemic is pretty much inevitable even if they had the third element (which they don't). 

American troops and UN staff are currently present in Africa for training and intelligence purposes. I doubt many are buying into the illusion that the situation can be controlled. Once Ebola becomes present in Western countries, I'm sure these people will be recalled to areas where their recent experience will make a genuine difference.

It is tempting to send Australian troops so they can gain experience, but I agree with the author. Our army is too small and of that number, only a minority is capable of mobile operations at a given time. The experience is not worth the risk of losing them.Agreed.

Australia barely has the ability to carry out brigade-level operations in Australia, let alone overseas. The last thing we want is to risk our most operational units in Africa.It's uncertain whether our forces have such capacity.

But whether they do or not, sending our operational units to Africa won't improve our odds."containing the outbreak in Africa would be far less expensive than containing it here."

I would have to disagree.

Africa has a sprawling population, porous borders, insufficient healthcare and communities which are only three bad days from anarchy.

Even if it were possible to contain the outbreak in Africa, it is more realistic and less expensive to focus on containing it here.I'd go one step further.

Life imprisonment without parole - with personal luxuries conditional on the inmate's participation in penal labour projects.Harvey. You misunderstand. 

Labor didn't cause a budget emergency. They *were* the budget emergency. The emergency ended when they lost office.You can accuse the British of being iron fisted. But the fact is clear: when they saw the writing on the wall that the time of empire was over, they surrendered power willingly (though not always graciously).

This is something the Chinese government will never do. China has been in "democratic transition" for fifty years now and made no progress whatsoever. It's clear that the central government has no intention of giving up power at any point.

It seems democracy in China will only come from violent revolution. Hopefully this protest is the first step in that process. I live for the day when the Chinese government will be held accountable for running the world's largest dictatorship - from the highest president to the lowest pawn."It only requires offence, not vilification."

Not even that, really.

Section 18C is designed to protect the public from being offended by the sight of someone being vilified in a public area. If the vilification occurs outside the public's view, 18C doesn't apply.The good professor fails to distinguish between actual and potential threats.

Terrorists and boat people do pose an existential threat to Australia. All we lack is the specific circumstances in which the threat ceases to be potential and becomes actual.

Given Australia's vulnerabilities, it is unlikely we will be able to cope with an actual existential threat.  The damage would be irreparable and we'd only have ourselves to blame for allowing the circumstances to arise. So instead, it is better to manage the threat while they remain potential. 

Professor Saul does not see this need. It seems he is so focused on the social privileges and charity of today, his perspective doesn't recognise any threats which lie more than five minutes into the future.SuzyQ.

The terrorists in Northern Ireland were attempting to forcibly merge it with the rest of Ireland. They posed an existential threat until they agreed to peace negotiations which ensured Northern Ireland's continued separation.

Terrorists can pose an existential threat to Australia, they just need enough operatives, bombs and time. Boat people also pose an existential threat to Australia, they just need to arrive in sufficiently large numbers.

You might be willing to tolerate these risks and join a militia if things don't work out. Me? I'd prefer the country manage these threats *before* they become an issue, rather than after.SuziQ. Threats exist regardless of whether they are imminent or potential.

I can imagine an army of a thousand terrorists waging a guerrilla war in Australia. I can imagine tens of thousands of boat people arriving on our shores due to some regional conflict or situation. These are not fantastical scenarios. They're don't require a stretch of imagination.

And I don't see us being able to easily cope with either situation - so they must be prevented from occurring at all. We need to jump at shadows, because it's too late once the shadow jumps at you.The elites and companies already bankroll the country, either directly through their tax or indirectly through the paychecks they post out to their employees.

If they left tomorrow, Australia would become a third world country overnight. Our healthcare and welfare would be gone in a snap. Yet for some reason, the left-wing insists on raiding their assets and driving them away.

When a dog bites the feeding hand, is it because of greed or resentment?Alpo.

As the law currently stands, the civilians who died from Western military action during the Iraqi invasion were killed lawfully. They were collateral damage from direct strikes on military targets, hence they can't be considered murder.

You'd be hard pressed to find a court judgement indicating otherwise. So your comments seem to be slander at best and pro-ISIL propaganda at worst.


"Murder" is specifically defined as being intentional and unlawful killing.  

If you kill someone lawfully or unintentionally, it does not constitute murder. What you call weasel words, other people call law.Ralf. Murder is a legal term that hinges on technicalities.

If international law was based on what things "seemed" to you, it would be a simpler world.Darth. Wars do not need to be sanctioned by the UN to be legal. 

Even if you could speak for the international community, legality doesn't depend on popularity. 

The Rwandan Genocide wouldn't become legal just because the majority of the international community wish it. Neither will the Iraq War become illegal, just because a majority of the international community objected to it.@RU4Real

The West asserts that their wars were legal and the civilian casualties were lawful, since they were the collateral damage of legitimate strikes on military targets. In the absence of any court judgement saying otherwise, their claims are as good as fact. 

The Geneva Conventions provide that civilians are not allowed to be killed in certain specific situations. If a civilian is killed in these situations, it is a war crime. If a civilian is killed outside these situations, the killings are permissible.

If the people writing the Geneva conventions wanted to make every civilian death a crime, they could have achieved it in a single page. They used a hundred pages and didn't. You should ask yourself why.Eric.

Protection of civilians is covered by many more articles, not just the general ones you've cherry picked. General protection is not the same as absolute protection.

International law provides that wars can be legal and civilian casualties can be lawful in some circumstances. The articles you cite are interpreted in that light - so I suggest you're trying to mislead people.Eric. Since you've made no assertions or arguments as per usual, further debate with you seems pointless.

I'm surprised that you would suggest that people read the entire Geneva Conventions- it seems to be the last thing you'd want to occur, given your omissions and selective use of citations. Perhaps you'd like to retract it?Mara.

They probably asked the same during the second world war. Every time German civilians died, it provided a recruitment boost for the German Army. German leadership would point to the craters and civilians would flock to the military's banner.

So why did the Allies win? Because they had more bombs then Germany had civilians to recruit.Dove. I think you'd find the opposite. 

The majority of war crime convictions are aimed at the leadership. The majority of the rank and file who commit the individual crimes are usually untraceable.Alpo. The opinions of these "specialists" have not been validated by any court judgement. So it's reasonable to conclude that their opinions are wrong and so are you.

A good indicator of fact is: whatever remains, even after it is ignored.

I can ignore your opinions and they become inconsequential. You can ignore the fact that the West's claims have never been contradicted by the courts, but it will remain so.Eric. Wars can be lawful or unlawful, based on the circumstances. 

In the absence of a court judgement, it is reasonable to conclude that the Iraq War was lawful. From a legal perspective, the West is also entitled to the presumption that their actions were legal at best and innocent at worst.

I'm tempted to submit my personal arguments for the legality of the war. But doing so would be a waste of breath, since the West currently has no case to answer.So you assert, Eric. 

Unfortunately, your assertions haven't been validated by any court. So it's fair to assume that you're wrong until a compelling legal judgement indicates otherwise.

Dove. 

1. I don't assert that you need a conviction to have a crime. What I argue is that the Iraq War was legal and the absence of any conviction supports this.

2. I have not claimed that Iran or Syria is guilty of war crimes. You'd be hard pressed to find a post that proves otherwise, but feel free to try.

3. Even if I did have double standards as you claim, that would not automatically mean that any of those standards are wrong.
Paul.

We don't intervene in Africa, because it would lead to hostility from African nations. They'd see it as neo-colonialism and possibly even start funding the people we'd be fighting. 

Nothing to do with oil or resources. It's about geopolitics. While the West seeks to create a better world, it's opposed by every sphere of influence outside its own.Parliament decides what their security procedures will be. If these procedures involve searching people in burkas or prohibiting burkas outright, so be it.

This isn't about racism. It is about security. You would be searched if you showed up to Parliament in an overcoat or a briefcase. People in burkas should expect to fall under the same policy as everyone else.

It's a fair bet that Labor would be objecting irrespective of whatever Abbott proposed, whether the proposal involved banning, searching or doing nothing. Their words should be viewed in that context - complaining for the sake of it.The article also paints an incomplete picture.

Fact A - It is unlikely that a second Tiananmen square massacre will occur......

Fact B - ......but it is still far more likely to happen in China then it would in any other modern country.The burqua is designed to separate the wearer from the community. 

The recent debates are simply a sign that the clothing works as intended.Yank. Can you name any Islamic terror groups that disbanded once they achieved their goals? 

When a terrorist group gets what they want, they just make a new demand. If a terrorist group hasn't got a reason to exist, it will find one. If it can't find a reason, it will invent one.

Here is the reality you can't seem to accept: We are at war with Islamic terror groups whether we like it or not. The only question is whether we meet them with resistance, or sit back while they shape the world.The IS aren't seeking democracy - they're seeking to undermine it and create a caliphate.  The IS isn't participating in protest - they're taking control of territory with guns and killing whoever opposes them. 

It's clear you're opposed to the West. But there's no reason to ridicule China's democratic movement by comparing them to an Islamic terrorist organisation.

Or perhaps your goal is to compare the West to China? If this turns out to be another Tiananmen, you might be in for a sobering shock. America got through the Ferguson riots with zero civilian fatalities. Let's see if China can do the same.Joe. Mortan makes a valid point. 

I'm sure the majority of Chinese are perfectly satisfied with living under a brutal and corrupt dictatorship. Why? Because it's the only form of government they've ever known."why is it that the Western media doesn't give the same type of coverage and concern when Palestinians are being bombed and "collaterally damaged" by Zionist Israelis"

1. Hamas militants were launching rockets at Israeli cities. Bombing the rocket sites to stop further attacks is a perfectly reasonable response.

2. They did. For the entire duration of the month long conflict, the Western media was reporting on a daily basis. You might not have been paying attention.
